Do you want to be opening your Bibles up to John chapter 15? It's so good to see all of you here this morning thankful for your safety and your health. And it's a great opportunity to be able to worship God. And for those who are joining us online, we're thankful for you as well and hope that our time spent worshiping God will be helpful and encouraging for all of us. In the past 15 years, our world has become much more interconnected. With the rise of social media, it's now possible to find someone that you have a relationship with someone who may be living 1000s of miles away. And in just a couple of taps on the smartphone, you can send someone a message someone who may be living on the other side of the world, we are constantly getting updates about things that are happening in people's lives. Jim is buying a new house, Bob just got a new job, Sally is pregnant. All of this access to information allows us to stay more connected with people. There are lots of resources online as well, someone is sick, there are groups that they can join. And they can share tips and resources and ideas about how to manage that condition. There's ways that we can support other people that in times past just simply were not possible. We live in an age where technology has made possibilities seem limitless. There are so many opportunities that are in front of us. And yet with all of the platforms, all of the apps, all of the notifications, people still feel disconnected. COVID has accelerated This people are more isolated now than maybe they have ever been. One recent survey found that 79% of respondents said they experience feelings of loneliness, and isolation. Three out of every four people who were asked said that they feel detached. Despite all of the social interaction that we have through the computer and through our smartphones. We are feeling more alone. We are lacking meaningful connection. It's so important for us to connect. One of the observations that the Lord made when he was looking over all of His creation, and he had seen everything and saw that it was good. He looked down on the man and said that it was not good for him to be alone to be isolated, to be cut off to be separated from others. This year at Broadmoor, our theme for 2022 is connect. Connect simply means to join together to create a link a relationship between two things. And this is such a vital and important topic because God created us with a need for connection. And so hopefully this year we can think about our great need to connect with others to connect with God. And think about how we can grow in that area as we move forward this year. So I like to just give an overview of some of the possible things that we might talk through this year but the first in five primary way that we need to continue is with God is with the Lord. And I want to start in John chapter 15, beginning in verse one, John chapter 15. In verse one, it says, I am the vine, and my Father is the vinedresser. Every branch in Me that does not bear fruit he takes away. And every branch that bears fruit he prunes, that it may bear more fruit. You are already clean because of the word which I've spoken to you abide in Me and I in you, as the branch cannot bear fruit of itself unless it abides in the vine, neither can you unless you abide in me. I am the vine, you are the branches, He who abides in Me, and I in him, bears much fruit. For Without me, you can do nothing. Jesus uses the image of a vine here, and this would have been a common picture that the people would have been familiar with during his time. First of all, vines and vineyards were common during the land. During Jesus's time, there are several parables that mentioned vineyards, a man planted a vineyard Mark chapter 12, or a son was told to go into the vineyard and work for his father, Matthew 21. But this was something that was helpful people could relate to what Jesus was saying here. This figure is also used in the Old Testament to describe Israel's relationship with the Lord in Psalm 80. In verse eight, it says that God, His people are a vine that was brought out of Egypt, and was planted, and that the roots began to sink deep, and they flourished in the land of promise, they began to grow and produce. But it wasn't long before that vine was eventually cut off. And the people would be carried off into captivity. And John 15, in verse one, Jesus says, I am the true vine. Gods ultimately plan was not just about blessing physical Israel, and making them a great nation. But his promises would ultimately be fulfilled in the true vine in Christ, the Savior of the world. Israel's purpose, its focus was to bring about the Messiah so that he could come and bless the world. Here in John 15. Notice there are three parties that are mentioned here. Jesus is the vine, the father is the vine dresser. And then there are the branches. The vine dresser is the caretaker, he's the one that provides for the vine, make sure that it's healthy, he watches over it, he ensures that it has all that it needs to continue to grow and produce fruit. It says that he prunes the branches, he takes off those who that are no longer producing so that what is left can continue to grow, and to end to thrive. And he makes a very direct statement about the vine in verse five. He says, He who abides in Me, and I in him bears much fruit. for without Me you can do nothing. A branch that is not connected to the vine is as good as dead. There was a few years ago that there was a strong, strong storm that came through our area. And one of the trees that's in our backyard was completely knocked over. Not just a little shrub, but this was a very mature tree about 30 feet tall. And it wasn't blocking anything. It thankfully didn't come in contact with the house or any other structures. So we just kind of left it where it was. And after a couple of weeks, I went out into the yard to check on it. And I was amazed to see that the tree looked like it was completely normal. The leaves were still green. The wood was still strong, except for laying on its side you would think that nothing had ever happened. into it. And yet despite its appearance, the tree was destined to be chopped, and use for firewood. It was completely cut off. The warning for us today is that we need to stay connected to the Lord. Because a branch can appear to be healthy, it can look green on the outside and, and look good from external appearances, but inwardly it can be rotten and wasting away. When we are separated from the Lord, we are spiritually dead. We are removed from our source of life, the thing that gives us our ability to grow. What can we accomplish? Without God? What can we do apart from the Lord? In Numbers, chapter 14, after the 12 spies returned to the congregation, you remember that there were 10, who brought back a bad report of the land and only two who said that it was possible for them to go in, and to take what God had promised to them. And upon hearing what the 10 spies had to say that the children of Israel were convinced that they would not be able to go in that it wouldn't be possible. And upon hearing this, the Lord pronounced a judgment. He said that that entire generation would not be able to enter, they would fall in the wilderness, none of them would see the land, except for Joshua. And Caleb, you remember what the response of the people was a number chat, chapter 14, after the Lord had said this, it says, when Moses told these words to all the people of Israel, the people mourned greatly. And they rose early in the morning and went up to the heights of the hill country saying, here we are, we will go up to the place that the Lord has promised, for we have sinned. But Moses said, why now are you transgressing the command of the Lord, when that when that will not succeed? Do not go up for the Lord is not among you, lets you be struck down before your enemies, that people change their minds, and they come up with this great idea. They go up on the high hill, they look into the land, and they say, Well, maybe we can go in and take the land, you know, we made a mistake. So let's change that and go a different direction. But Moses tells them, they're not going to succeed. He says that the Lord is not with you. In this, you can only get so far without God in your life. Sure, you may have some success by the world's standard. But we will never live up to what we were created to be. Unless we are connected to the Lord. We connect to the Lord. When we listen to His word, as he told the people in numbers, he gave them instruction about what to do or not do. That's one of the ways that we connect to him when we follow him when we trust him when we do what he says, even if we don't necessarily understand why or how it's all going to work out. We connect with God when we worship him. What we're doing this morning, we praise we offer up our worship, we offer prayer, we reflect on all that God has done on who he is on where we are in relationship to him. We connect with God when we read and meditate on His Word, something that we should be doing on a daily basis, thinking about all that he's instructed us and told us to do. And we connect with God. When we pray. When we seek His guidance, his forgiveness, his protection, his strength, is one of the greatest ways to be in a close relationship with Him. branches that are removed from the vine have no access to water to nutrients, as Jesus says, without me. You can do nothing. So it all starts there. Our connection to God is paramount. We also see we have a connection not only to God but also to the church. Our relationship, our connection to God should come before everything else but Serving God is not something that we do in isolation. God intended us, intended for us to be in relationship with his people to be a part of a community. In first Corinthians chapter 12, in verse 12, it says, For just as the body is one and has many members, and all the members of the body, though many are one body, so it is with Christ. For in one Spirit, we were all baptized into one body, Jews or Greeks, slaves or free, and all were made to drink of one spirit, for the body does not consist of one member. But of many. Here Paul is making an appeal to unity among the members. And uses the picture of a body says that there are many members in the body. You have the hands and the feet, and the eyes and the ears and the heart and the kidneys, and the lungs, all these different parts, but they're all part of one body. They have different roles and functions, but they still work together for a common purpose, for the same goal, and that's how it is in Christ. He says that when we were baptized, were baptized into his body. That means that regardless of our background, our ethnicity, our social standing, our economic, welfare, economic standing, we're all members. And each one is important. What if Paul had used a different picture here instead of a body? What if he had said we are all stones in a bucket? Or if he had said, we're all coins in the bag coins are made of the same material. They look similar to one another. There have some value, you could have said we are all coins in the bag of the Lord. But it's not the same, is it? It's not the same as a body. In a body, the members are dependent on one another. It is critical for their survival and their growth. They rely on each other. The hands can't function without the veins and the muscles in the arm. There's no use for the feed if the knees aren't working, if they're not bending properly. It is all inner connected. My brother and his family had a disaster at their house this past year back in February, they were in Texas when the great freeze happened. And while they were away from their home, because the power was out, they had over 10 pipes that burst and started bringing water into the house there was literally a waterfall coming down from the ceiling. And after it was all said and done by the time they shut it all off, there was two to three inches of water just sitting on the bottom floor of their house. When they called the insurance company, they said it was going to be two weeks two to three weeks before they could get someone out there to look at it because they had so many claims. So many people were calling and there were so many homes that had issues at the time that they weren't just weren't able to get out there to help them. But that same day before the sun had gone down, the brothers from the church came over to help. And they started working. And over the next couple of days they were able to rip out all of the carpet, the drywall all the stuff that was wet and lay it out. So it could start drying one of the neighbors was so impressed. They came over and they asked him they said how did you get this work crew to come out here so fast? Wait, what company are you working with? You know, this is this is impressive service here. But that's what happens in the body of Christ. We support one another, we help each other. And when there's a need that arises, we are there to step in. And to help. In the body of Christ. There is no competition or rivalry. You never see the left leg trying to get stronger than the right leg. The parts of the body don't boast against each other look at me or look at what I'm able to accomplish or do because that's counterproductive that doesn't help the body continue to move forward. each of the members understands that they are just one part of the overall that they work for the benefit and the support of the body. Being connected to a body, to a group to a family means that there is a desire for us to be together to spend time with one another. In First Thessalonians chapter two, in verse 17, it says, but since we were torn away from you, brothers for a short time in person, not in heart, we endeavored the more eagerly with great desire to see you face to face, because we want it to come to you, I Paul again and again, but Satan hindered us for what is our hope, or joy or crown of boasting before our Lord Jesus at is coming? Is it not you, for you, are our glory and joy? You see what Paul's greatest desire was? What was his joy? What did he endeavor eagerly to do? He says he wanted to see them face to face, he wanted to be with the brothers and sisters, that bond that we have with God's people, is so strong. There should be a burning in our hearts, a longing to be with other Christians, the time that we spend together is so special. It's a time away from the world where we can focus on the things that truly matter most and opportunity to reflect and recharge and refocus ourselves. Do we have that same yearning that Paul describes here? Do we anticipate being with God's people? Is it our joy to be around the Lord and His people? We sing a song in our books, called bless be the tie. And the first verse of that song says bless be the tie that binds our hearts in Christian love. The Fellowship of kindred minds is like to that above. The relationship that we display among one another is just a reflection of what is happening in heaven. between God and between Christ there is connection there's community that should that love should be represented in our relationships. The writer goes on to say when we asunder part, it gives us inward pain. But we shall still be joined in heart, and hope to meet again. The connection that we have with our brothers and sisters is special, something that has to be watered and nurtured because we are a family. We think about connecting God has given us not just the church but also relationships outside the church that are important. One of the primary ones, is with our family. In Ephesians, chapter six and verse one, it says children obey your parents in the Lord for this as right. Honor your father and mother. This is the first commandment with a promise that it may go well with you and that you may live long in the land. Fathers do not provoke your children to anger but bring them up in the discipline and instruction of the Lord. In the book of Ephesians. Paul addresses many of the family relations. In chapter five he speaks about the husbands and the wives and how their relationship should mirror or parallel Christ and the church. And then here in chapter six, he addresses children and parents. It's so important because you might think that because we live under the same roof, we share the same space. We are together much of our time that we would be connected, but it doesn't happen by chance. family connections require intentionality. It requires effort. He says here in verse one that children should obey and honor their parents. Obedience is something that we learn from the time that we're very little. It's about submission and compliance but honor is something that lasts for a lifetime. You never graduate or grow out of honoring your father and mother. It is a responsibility that lasts for your entire life. Notice he says that This is verse two. This is the first commandment with a promise, when Moses was giving the 10 Commandments in Exodus chapter 20. The only one of the 10 that came with a promise was this one, to honor your father and mother, so that you would live long in the land. Isn't it interesting that the success of the nation, their ability to control their borders to be secure in the land that they inherited, was directly tied to how they treated the people in their family. The home is the foundation of any society. And when that begins to disintegrate or fall apart, there are so many issues that arise after that. We can look to Jesus in this area, and see that he was an example to us, even in regards to how he treated his parents. In John chapter 19, as Jesus is dying on the cross, one of the last things that he does, he looks at his mother, and the disciple whom he loved. And he says, Behold, your mother, behold your son, he makes provisions for his family, even while he himself is being put to dead put to death. He also says here in Ephesians, six that children should not be provoked to anger. There are certain things that make kids angry going to bed when it's time, turning off the TV when you've been asked cleaning up your stuff when it's on the floor. But this is not talking about instructions that are frustrating to little ones, but rather, this is doing something that intentionally upsets them. Things like teasing them, or making fun of them or laughing at them, hiding something from them just to get a rise to get a reaction from them. Peter or Paul says that we shouldn't provoke our children. In that way. We looked at Jesus again, Jesus never coerced or manipulated his disciples. He didn't talk down to them He was patient, and kind even when they didn't understand, or having having trouble grasping something, had to teach them the same lesson over and over again. He was still patient, and approachable, and willing to help. connection with our family takes time and work. But when those bonds are strong, when that relationship is what it ought to be, it allows us it gives us the foundation, and the support that we need to do great work in the kingdom. And finally, we have a need, not just to connect with those that are closest to us, but also to connect with our neighbors. In Matthew chapter five and verse 13. It says, You are the salt of the earth. Or you are the light of the world, a city set on a hill cannot be hidden, nor do people light a lamp and put it under a basket, but on a stand and it gives light to all in the house. In the same way. Let your light shine before others so that they may see your good works and give glory to your Father in heaven. You are the light of the world. He says you are the salt of the earth. if the salt loses its impact if it's no longer having an influence on the food that it's placed on on the roads or the streets where it's laid down. Then what purpose does it have? What use does it have? Salt and lights are meant to go out to project out to have a positive impact on the things around them. We can shine our lights wherever we are. Whether it's in our school activities, or sports, at our work in our neighborhoods, but all of the connections that we have, there's opportunity for us to be a blessing. In the Old Testament, God said that his glory would fill up the earth. And that statement is being fulfilled today. In the lives of God's people. The glory of the Lord fills the Earth. When we are living for God when we show kindness When we live as Christ would have us to, and set that example, for those around us, how many people would never have heard about Jesus, if there wasn't a friend at school, or a neighbor or a co worker or someone that reached out to them, and began to show interest, to talk with them, to share with them, to help them to come in contact with the Lord, connecting with our neighbors with those around us, is a vital part of our faith in our walk with Christ. We're going to close this morning with a invitation song. And it's an opportunity for all of us to think about our connection, our connection to the Lord, our connection to his people to those around us. And to think about how we can strengthen those relationships. And if there's something that we can do to encourage you, in your walk with Christ, to begin that relationship to start that journey, or if you need to recommit yourself to serving the Lord if there's something that we can help you with. Please come to the front as we stand in seeing


Transcribed by https://otter.ai