Jeremy Sweets  00:04
Well, good evening. Good to see everyone here tonight, it's certainly good to be able to gather together and worship. I was away from you this morning preaching elsewhere. But again, it's so good to be with you. This is certainly family and home. So I'm glad to be able to worship with you tonight. I'd like to do something that I haven't really done much since I've been preaching here, which is a little bit and that is, I'd like to preach through a book. Now I know other preachers do this. And when they're preaching twice a week, they got eight sermons a month, you know, they're able to spread things out a little bit. So this may extend you know, a year or even more, because I'm probably going to do one lesson a quarter. Because there are other things to preach. But but I'm going to try this anyway. So you hold me to account. This is Amos chapter one. Amos, chapter one. And we're going to look at a different theme from from each chapter, again, is that that extends on but it probably won't be real often, but I will try to keep with it. Amos chapter one, the thing we're going to look at tonight from chapter one is that God is sovereign. God is sovereign. But before we jump into that, that theme, I'd like to notice just a few things about Amos as we introduce this prophet, Amos was one of the earliest writing prophets recorded in Scripture. In Amos one and verse one, it tells us the kings in which he prophesied those that were raining. And it says the words of Amos, who was among the shepherds of Tekoa, which he saw concerning Israel in the days of Uzziah, king of Judah, and in the days of Jeroboam, the son of Joash. Now both of those kings had fairly long rains 40 ish years for each one of them. And that would have been in the mid eighth century, the mid 18th century. So we may remember for Israel that they are headed toward in 722, they are headed toward a conflict in which they will be exiled from the land. So this is in the period preceding that. Okay. In the several years preceding that, we see that the text indicates also in verse two, that this was two years before the earthquake. Now many people have tried to identify when this earthquake is, and I'm not sure that everyone's been able to figure exactly, but we might put this this, the prophecy here around 760, around 760. So again, a generation before Israel is going to go into exile. And it appears that Amos's period of prophecy was not that long, if it dates it two years before, we don't know exactly how long he prophesied, but it was likely a short reign, probably two years or under. We see that during this time. Even though Israel is going to head into captivity with a Syria in this generation before a Syria is not as strong as they were, when, as they will be. There's a coalition of forces including Syria, and Israel and the surrounding countries that are going to provide some pushback against the Syria. So this is also a time when a Syria is not dominant, and Israel is able to flourish. During the days of Jeroboam the second the country in Israel expanded as far as they ever had. It was a time of great prosperity. And we find that this man, this simple man, Amos is set to prophesy to Israel. And it appears that Amos was from the south and he comes and speaks to the north. And his livelihood was one of a businessman. He was a shepherd. We see in chapter seven and verse 14, that he was also a keeper of, of sycamore trees are of the figs there. And so he was one that dealt with agriculture dealt with the land dealt with, with sheep, he was a businessman. And that's going to come in to be handy because he is going to condemn in many ways, the prosperity and the business practices that that much of Israel was was going through and was perpetrating, and they were doing that against the poor. And so Amos starts with this message from God that comes from this Shepherd, Amos from this Shepherd Amos. So notice, first of all, this introduction under this outline again, we won't go over this every time. But just to give you an idea of the major sections. In the first two verses, we read those, it's an introduction of who is prophesying to whom, and basically what time period it's an introduction. But from there he moves to judgment against the nations. And it carries a certain form, it starts with the name of the place, and thus says the Lord. And it goes through the the judgment that is going to come upon them. It starts with the foreign nations before it moves to Israel, Judah and Israel and chapter two. And chapter three through six, we see further judgments, condemnation series of Oracle's that are brought against Israel. Then there are visions of judgment, do you see a major theme through these sections, and that is judgment. Israel is prospering physically, but spiritually, they are very, very weak. And so Amos brings this message of judgments. And as the prophets often do, they have large sections of condemnation of sin and judgment. But they often end with a sliver, a statement, a brief statement of hope, and of restoration. And that's exactly what Amos does here. So as we move along, notice that God is sovereign, and God is the sovereign, keen, sovereign, keen. kingship and the Ancient Near East was a threatened occupation. You know, we talk about occupations today, and we talk about nursing, you want to go into nursing, because there's plenty of jobs there, you won't want to do something like that. Or we look at Job careers that, that have plenty of space for people to work, there's a high demand. You don't want to go into demand to a job that there's only one or two in the country. And there's 50 People trying for that job. It's a threatened job, you might say, Well, being a king in ancient Near East was a difficult thing. Lots of perks being up at the top, but it was also a job that many people were gunning for. In order to become king, you likely had to be ruthless yourself in order to get the job. And once you got the job, you had to be ruthless in order to maintain it. You had to be vigilant, because everyone else was looking for your crown. See that Jeroboam. This is in the RAM reign of Jeroboam the second. And after Jeroboam there is Zacharia Zacharia. Hisa sees Jeroboam notice that he only rains six months before shall I'm a captain of his own army kills him assassinates him and takes command. Well shall only rain for a month before a nother commander of the army, kills him and takes the throne. We see this happens all throughout this story is repeated over and over. If you're a king in the ancient Near East, you better watch out not only from those internally, but also from foreign powers, foreign invaders. We see for example, King Belshazzar and Daniel chapter five, we find that that writing on the wall gave him a mess. And it was very soon after that, that his life was taken, and his throne was taken from him. This tale of kingship is common in the ancient Near East. The reason I bring all that up is because God is sovereign in a different way. God is sovereign like no other. In Isaiah 40 In verse 12, it says this, who has measured the waters in the hollow is of his hand and marked off the heavens with a span enclose the dust of the earth and a measure and weigh the mountains and scales and the hills in a balance. The question is who is like God? And there is none. There is none. The Good News Translation of Nahum one two says this, The Lord tolerates no rivals. If you're a king and ancient Aries, you better watch out for your rivals, those that wanted to take you down and to take your job. Can anyone do that to God? Is there anyone capable of dethrone in God in the answer is absolutely not. Absolutely not. God is Sovereign King. He has no rivals. He has He doesn't have to worry about someone equal to him trying to take his throne. He doesn't have to worry about foreign powers or the Devil or Satan or any other power taking his throne. The Lord reigns and he reigns forever. Notice a few statements of God's sovereignty in Amos and Amos for in verse 13. It says this. For behold, he who forms the mountains and creates the winds, and declares the man what is his thought, who makes the morning darkness and treads on the heights of the Earth, the Lord, the God of hosts is his name. And Amos five and verse eight, He who made the Pleiades and Orion and turns deep darkness into the morning, and darkens the day in the nights, who calls for the waters of the sea and pours them out on the surface of the Earth, the Lord is his name. And Amos nine, verses five and six. The Lord God of hosts, he who touches the earth, and it melts, and all who dwell in it more, and all of it rises like the Nile and sinks again, like the Nile of Egypt, who builds his upper chambers in the heavens and founds his vaults upon the earth, Who calls for the waters of the sea and pours them out upon the surface of the earth. The Lord is his name. You see the message that Amos is bringing? God is sovereign, who can compare? God is King, and there is none other God is sovereign. As Sovereign King, he has the right, the authority, the majesty and the power to speak, to speak. Not everyone has that right where everyone else should listen to them. But God has sovereign has the right to speak, his words are not to be ignored. Notice, for example, in Amos one and verse two, Amis one and verse two. And he said, The Lord roars from Zion, and others his voice from Jerusalem, the pastures of the shepherds mourn and the top of Carmel withers. This is included in that introduction we had read verse one, this verse to some people think introduces the entire book, God speaks, God's speaks forth His Word. And notice the language that use the Lord roars from Zion. This is not a meek, mild, quiet whisper. This is an authoritative voice that speaks for that roars and it utters its voice from Jerusalem. One of the things that says about Jeroboam is that he was an evil king. In fact, many in Israel were evil kings, weren't they? And they followed after the sins of Jeroboam, the first, who had set up high places in Israel, so that they could go worship. Notice this southern prophet as he goes to the north, what does he say? The Lord roars from Zion, and others his voice from Jerusalem. I think that's a slight dig at the worship that they would have been practicing in the north in the high places. God speaks from his holy hill. He speaks from Jerusalem. And he speaks again so that from Jerusalem he roars, and in the north, you can hear his word. In North in Israel, you can hear the voice of God. He goes on to say that the pasture of the shepherds mourn. Another translation of that becomes dry or dries up. Now Amos would have known something about pasture lands Whitney. If you take sheep there, you want to take sheep where they can graze where they can eat. But here it says that the pastures of the shepherds more and they cry or they dry up. Furthermore, the top of Carmel which would have been in the north that says that it withers this mighty mountain that they people would have looked at and seen from a great distance. It says that it withers. In the presence of Almighty God, His Word goes forth, and it cannot be denied. It cannot be denied. God is sovereign, to speak. God is sovereign to speak and he speaks to the nations He speaks to the nations. As we move into verses 313 through 2313 through two three, here we see that God addresses the sins of the surrounding nations. And this, this includes Syria, Philistia, tyre, Edom, Ammon, and Moab. He appears to start with those that are more distant from Israel before he moves to the relatives of Israel with Edom, Ammon, and Moab. And then he's going to move to Jerusalem in Israel. And I'm not going to discuss those parts. Tonight. That'd be part two, right? Chapter Two. But here, he can speak to the nations. You see, in the ancient Near East, not only did they have this concept of a king that ruled over all, but they also had many gods in fact, each country or kingdom had their own god or multiple gods in which they would submit to and they would listen to their local God, their regional God. And if they could defeat another king, they would say that my God is stronger than your God. Let me simply ask the question, Is God a regional god? Is he a regional God of Israel? And Amos says, No, God is sovereign over all the earth, he doesn't have to restrict Himself to a single nation, or a single group of people. And he rules only over them. No God, as we saw through the verses that we read, He, he's created all things, he's created the stars, he is the God of the universe. He's not restricted, he's not localized. He's not regionalized, he is universal. And he is God over all. And so he has the rights and the authority to speak to these other nations, because He is God of these other nations as well, whether they acknowledge him or not, He is God over these other nations. And he is sovereign. As I mentioned, there's a formula that's followed with as all these nations are addressed. And it begins with this statement, Thus says the Lord, and announcement of the king as he speaks for, Thus says the Lord. And then there's a statement of certainty with God's word. God's word is not fickle, but it is certain For three transgressions, and it lists some of those things. And for four, I will not revoke its punishments. It is certain, and it will happen. There's then evidence of the crimes that that are given, and an announcement of the curse that is to follow or the punishment. And then it concludes with says, The Lord, you know, that carries a lot of weight, we might find a letter and it may not mean a lot until we get down and see the signature. It's the signature of the President or king or a high ranking official. And that means something. And here we see that God extends these, Oracle's starting with thus says the Lord, providing weight and authority to his word. And it concludes with with the statement this says, The Lord says the Lord, Psalm 22, and verse 28, says this, For kingship belongs to the Lord, and He rules over the nations. God is sovereign, he is a Sovereign King, and He is the ruler over all nations. And for that reason, he has a right to address and speak the other nations. Other so called Gods did not have that right, or that ability. And so we see that God is sovereign, to speak, sovereign to speak. Not only that, but God is sovereign to judge and he is a sovereign judge, as the creator of all things, and the one that stands over all nations and all people, not just at one time, but through all time. God is sovereign to judge. I'm not read through all of this, but I just want to mention some of the sins against these nations that are brought forth. There's an accusation that they delivered the entire population to Edom, and that's mentioned against both Damascus and Gaza, or Felicity. They did not remember the covenant of brotherhood. They made a pact or an agreement and they did not honor it says that he pursued his brother with the sword and stifled his company. Passion Are you had no pity. Another accusation against these nations is that they ripped open pregnant women, to enlarge their borders. And there's an accusation that one burned the bones of the king of Edom. Now, as I step back and look at a generalization of all those things, those are military crimes, crimes of excess crimes against humanity, we might say, in which they had no compassion, in which they carried out war against the innocent. They went above and beyond in their tactics, military access, no compassion for others. And yet we see that God can speak a judgment against them. You may notice that these are not laws within the law of Israel that he brings against the nations. He doesn't say you violated the passage in Deuteronomy 24, you violated the law that I gave you an exodus because God had not given them that law. So how is it that God could speak a word of judgment against them and in whom he had not given that kind of law? Well, these were things that should be generally known. These are things that fall what I might call under the moral law, the sense of compulsion, or ought, in our own hearts, even without the law of God, we can know something about who he is, and we know something about what we should do. Every nation has made rules because they say that we ought to do this, we should act in this way. And I think that is a statement of God Almighty. If we simply sprung from amoeba and there's no such thing as God, we would not have the sense of morality, this sense of compulsion that we should act in a certain way, it is the fact that a moral God exists. And he is sovereign above all, for which we even have that sense in our heart, our hearts, for which we have a conscience that says I should do this, or I shouldn't do that. And it's predict when we violate it. So yes, God can speak to these nations because He is God of the nations. And there are laws of morality, that are generally recognized across the board that should be recognized by them, and they violated these things. They violated these things. In Romans chapter one, it speaks of a similar type of Revelation, I'd like to look at Romans chapter one. In Romans one, we see the revelation of two key things. First of all, in verse 16, Paul says, For I am not ashamed of the gospel, for it is the power of God for salvation to everyone who believes, to the Jew first and also to the Greek. For in it the righteousness of God is revealed from faith for faith, as it is written, The righteous shall live by faith. The first thing revealed is the righteousness of God, that God is righteous, and it has been revealed that has been spoken for. And we see this in the gospel. The gospel is not again restricted to a few people or one nation, that gospel is to go out freely, and it's to be spoken to all people, it's freely revealed. Notice the second thing that is freely revealed in verse 18. For the wrath of God is revealed from heaven against all ungodliness and unrighteousness of men who by their unrighteousness suppress the truth. The second thing to be revealed, is God's wrath. And it is revealed against all ungodliness. And it too, is not a hidden message, but it is freely available for all people just as the gospel is available for all the wrath of God is there and it is revealed for all to see, continue in verse 19. For what can be known about God is plain to them because God has shown it to them revealed it For his invisible attributes, namely, his eternal power and divine nature have been clearly perceived, ever since the creation of the world and the things that have been made so that they are without excuse. For although they knew God, they did not honor him. otter give thanks to Him, but they became futile in their thinking, and their foolish hearts were darkened. Claiming to be wise, they became fools, and exchanged the glory of the immortal god for images resembling mortal man and birds and animals and creeping things. Notice when we think about God, there are invisible attributes, there are things that we cannot see, but there is evidence of God, there is evidence of a greater power. We know that we are not all that there is there is something more beyond us. And even though we can't see it's physically we are aware through our reason that there is a greater beam, his eternal power and divine nature, it says can be clearly perceived, we can understand that we can understand that there is a God, that there is a powerful beam that is before us. And that's been revealed that's been shown, it's been shown through nature into the things that we can see. But we see that the people here did not honor that. They did not recognize God or power, but they turned to themselves. And they chased after their own loss, and God gave them up. It says in verse 24, to the lust of their heart, God allow them to pursue their sinful hearts and their desires. Notice in verse 28, and since they do not see fit to acknowledge God, God gave them up to a debased mind to do what ought not to be done. They were filled with all manner of unrighteousness evil covetousness malice. They are full of envy, murderer strive to seek maliciousness. They are gossips, slanders haters of God, insolent, haughty, boastful, and vendors of evil, disobedient to parents, foolish, faithless, heartless, ruthless, though they know God's righteous decree that those who practice such things deserve to die, they not only do them, but give approval to those who practice them. Here it says that they know and they have this sense of God. And within that they also have a sense of what they should do. And civilizations and societies throughout time have made laws among themselves about what should be done. But what we ought to do what it means to be a good citizen, they would say, in their nation, but many of those things are a recognition of the moral laws, the moral fiber, of society of what God has made. And so we see that there is a morality, and people know what they ought to do and have this sense of what they ought to do. And yet in Romans one, it makes the point that they violate that they go against their own conscience, they go against what they should do. And the point is going to be made through here that that they are guilty. They are guilty. Everyone is guilty of these things. And so we see the the point that Paul is going to make God is a sovereign judge, he has the right to speak to these four nations, even though he hadn't given them the distinct law, like he had Israel, they had an understanding of what they should do, and they violated those things. They violated those things. When we look at Amis one, we see that God is sovereign. God is sovereign, is the Sovereign King. He has the right and the authority and the sovereignty to speak, and He is the sovereign judge. So what should our response be to him? Well, if he is the king, we need to honor him. We need to honor him. First Timothy, it says that we are to honor the king and that's our physical king. And if we're to honor our physical King, how much more should we honor the King of the universe, the King of all kings? How much more should we acknowledge him? In Romans one and mentions the fact that they though they knew God, they did not honor him? As God they did not recognize him. In the Bible reading we saw a statement there of praise at the as the leads into the birth of Jesus, but there in Luke one. We see right before the passage that we read, we see Mary, she says, My soul magnifies the Lord, and my spirit rejoices in God, my Savior. My soul magnifies the Lord. If God is truly sovereign, this should be our approach to him. This should be our attitude toward him, that we would acknowledge him. And I'll point out that God was sovereign over the nations even though they didn't acknowledge Him. God is still sovereign. He doesn't need, Your Honor. But he is worth that he is worthy of it. He deserves it. It is to your benefit, that you would honor Almighty God. So let us magnify the Lord Praise His name, recognize his greatness, it will do no good to fight against him. Again, he has no rivals, and he will not be rivaled by us. Not only should we honor him, but we should listen to him he has the right to speak. And we should listen in Romans 10 And verse 17, and talks about the fact that faith comes from hearing Christians of all people should be a listening and hearing people. Sometimes I see in the world, a lot of Christians that that's the last thing they do. They want to spout and spout and they don't want to listen. But Christians of all people should be a listening people. We should be listening primarily to the gospel. For is from the gospel. When we hear that message and listen to it with we receive faith and we develop faith in Matthew seven in verse 24. Therefore everyone who hears these words of mine and puts them into practice is like a wise man who built his house on the rock. That's the end of the Sermon on the Mount when Jesus says you need to listen. But listening is more than just hearing or having your ears open. It involves implementing or putting into practice, listen and do to really take it to heart. It's not in one ear and out the other. It's in one ear and it it finds a home in our hearts. That's what it means to listen to God. He is sovereign, he has the right to speak and we should listen to him. We should listen to him more than we listen to society. We should listen to him more than we listen to our friends. We should listen to him more than we listen to our parents. We should listen to him more than we listen to ourselves when we say yes, but I want to do this. No, listen to him. Listen to him. And he has the right to judge. And we should fear that righteous judge. If we were to act in wickedness against him or turn our hearts away from him. That would be a cause of great fear or God is a consuming fire. We dare not, we dare not go against him. We dare not defy him. Because he will win that battle for sure. And Ecclesiastes, the writer there considers what is the meaning and the purpose of life. And finally he comes to a conclusion. Fear God and keep His commandments. Develop a healthy respect, honor, reverence and healthy fear for God. He will judge us. If we think about Ecclesiastes, you know, our life's work may come and go and may not work out the way it should. Our business plans may fail. We may write lots of wisdom, we might find futility in those things, but we are to fear God because one day that Judge will mean what we do in this life matters. And so we had better take advantage of the one life that we have. As Joshua concludes his message in Joshua 24 In verse 14, he says now therefore fear the Lord and serve Him in sincerity and faithfulness. A lot of us have verse 15, on our walls, and that's a great first verse. Choose this day who served but as for me in my house, we will serve God. But verse 14 is excellent as well. Now therefore, fear the Lord and serve Him in sincerity and faithfulness. We are to fear God and that should lead us to action that should lead us to live in a righteous way. And we are to do that, not because we're checking off a list or simply because someone told us to we do that in honor to God. We do that in sincerity because we believe who he is, and we believe that compels us to action. And we do that in faithfulness. It's important that we obey God the first time. But it's important that we keep on faithfulness implies a consistency in which we do not give up And we do not turn away from the lore. Amis is a powerful book. And chapter one starts with the theme. I believe that God is sovereign. Maybe you're here tonight and you're not a Christian, you need to acknowledge the sovereignty of God. God has given you a way of escape from from the guilt from the punishment of sin. He sent His Son to die on the cross for you. And so you must hear the gospel message. Believe that Jesus is the Christ, repent of your sins, confess Jesus as the Christ and be baptized in the water for forgiveness of sins. That's a a process of humble submission. We lower ourselves we do what God says and take advantage of the gift that he has given us. If you're here tonight, and you are a Christian, but you're not living as you should you also need to make changes. If there's anyone subject to the invitation, please come as we stand in scene at this time.


Transcribed by https://otter.ai