Good morning to all as good to be with you. As we gather together on this Lord's Day. Thankful to see several visitors among us. In sad to see several of our folks are somewhere else. But we know that they're doing well. At this time of the year if I asked you to spell out a word that typifies this time of year, I wonder what you would think there'd be a five letter word, G. I, ft. S, his gifts. December 25, has long been associated with the matter of giving. Somehow, some reindeer fly through the sky. And they bring this fella to our homes, he comes down the chimney if you've got a chimney. And this amounts to gifts under the Christmas tree gives our important reminder of our blessings. Our ability to give means that we have more than we need. So we have the ability to give to others. And according to Jesus, through Paul, there is a blessing in giving, in giving. Acts tutorial chapter in everything I showed you that by working hard in this manner, you must help the weak. And remember the words of the Lord Jesus, that He Himself said, It is more blessed to give than to receive. So Christ is very meaningful on the matter of giving, and us receiving. And obviously, the receiver will find a blessing in receiving a thoughtful and useful gift. So there are abundant blessings in this season. And while most of the gifts that we're talking about are material, things in nature, or as we should also think about some greater gifts, some greater gifts, that have some spiritual values in them. As I want to talk this morning about better gifts to give. Mail, first of all suggest the gift of kindness. There's a great need for good people in the world. And in our hurry lives, we get so busy doing this, that in the other sunlight we might forget to be kind to show kindness to others. But kindness is a characteristic of what real love is all about. First Corinthians 13 For love is patient. Love is kind, it is not jealous. Love does not brag, and is not arrogant. So giving things like this means that we give to the betterment of our brethren, to help them to assist them to make them better in some way. Ephesians four, verse 32, be kind to one another, tender hearted, forgiving each other, Joseph, God and grace also has forgiven you. And we feel an important need for others, when we show kindness to them. Kindness should be a part of our character and what others think of us. The word kindness should come to mind as they think of how they would describe us. And kindness is both an attitude obviously as well as an action. Kindness is both attitude and action as the kind person is one who is a doer of good. He has an action with respect to this Galatians six, let us not love, lose heart and doing good. For in due time we shall read if we do not grow weary. So then while we have opportunity, let us do good to all men, especially to those who are of the household of faith. So here we see kindness is action as that we are busy in doing good as a kind person. Not only is kind of hard but he seeks opportunities. He seeks means by which he may show his kindness. Secondary the three, All Scripture is inspired by God and profitable for teaching, for reproof, for correction, for training in righteousness, that the man of God may be adequate, equipped for every good work, and what is the good work? A good work may be a deed of kindness, something that we have done to help others. And certainly, certainly, we see this characteristic Epaphroditus show this, as Paul wrote, therefore, receive him as he's sitting in Pafford itis to the Philippians received in the Lord with all joy and hold in like him in high regard, because he came close to death for me for the work of Christ, risking his life to complete what was the vision and your service to Me, through Branford Donna's had the gift of kindness, the Spirit, and He risked his own life in carrying out what they sent him for. That is to help Paul. And certainly, both Timothy and Paul display this characteristic Philippians the second chapter, Paul's it I hope in the Lord Jesus to say and Timothy shorter to you, so that I may also be encouraged when I learn of your condition. For I have no one else of kindred spirit, who will genuinely be concerned for your welfare. Obviously, Timothy, had a spirit of kindness. And Paul commended him in this in this. And then Paul wrote and sang greth Ian's 11 Apart from such external things, there was a daily pressure upon me of concern for all the churches, who was weak without my being weak, who was led into sin without my intense concern. Paul was kindly disposition toward the brethren there and expressed it in these in these words, and kindness is the right way to show Christ through us. Show that Christ is living in us. That's how we demonstrate his virtues, through our good works. So we can fulfill a responsibility God gave to us, as we see in Matthew 516, let your light shine before men in such a way that they may see your good works, and glorify your Father who is in heaven. And what is one way that we can show about Christ. They see Christ living on us when we are doers, on a good deeds, so we determined to give the gift of kindness will be a great blessing to those around us. And there are consequences. If we do not show kindness, members judgment seat of Christ depicted in Matthew 25. Well, Ephesians 413, we can become more like Him to become a mature man, to the measure of the stature which belongs to the fullness of Christ. But then Matthew 25, as Christ is giving a picture of the Judgment Day, then he will say to those on the left, Depart from me, you cursed once into the eternal fire, which been prepared for the devil and his angels. For I was hungry, and you gave me nothing to eat. Our sources gave me another drink, I was a stranger, you did not invite me in naked, you did not clothe me sick, and in prison, and you did not visit me. The Liam cells also will answer saying, Lord, what do we see you hungry or thirsty or a stranger or naked or sick or a prisoner and did not take care of you? Then he will answer them, saying, truly I say to you, to the extent that you did not do it to one of these least you did it not to me. And these will go away into eternal punishment, but the righteous into eternal life. So obviously, there is a great incentive for us to be doers of kindness. Not just to be doers of kindness. But how about seekers of opportunity opportunities to be kind. Maybe we don't just wait for the situation to come to us. But maybe we also go out and seek ways to be kind to others. Then there's the gift of time. Our presence, maybe our present, just being present. Somebody may be a present to them. And it's easy for us in our busy lives to be distracted from a distracted from even the most important relationships. Our families, our friends should not fall into that category of those that we overlook and forget about. But we lead busy lives. And from time to time, we may have an intention to help someone. But we're so busy and we may think, well, I'll have time for that later. But only reds gone. If we run out of time. Before we do our good intentions, when we run out of time before we have the time James wrote, yet you do not know what your life will be like tomorrow, you are just a vapor that appears for a little time while and then vanishes away. And how many times if we have an intent to do something, we are planning to do this. But we get busy here or there. We forget about it. Or you're involved in other things. And it's gone. It's gone. Accidents, illness. Death happens. Even in families and our presence, maybe more important than we realize. Our world is full of negative influences. Were quite aware of that. Paul warned in First Corinthians 15 be deceived, Bad company corrupts good morals. Then Paul wrote, Peter wrote for the time already passes efficient for you to have carried out the desire the Gentiles had to pursue a course on sensuality, last drunkenness, carousal raking parties and Obama in LA dama trees, and are all this, they are surprised that you do not run with him to the same access of dissipation. And then the line you we have those around us who try to influence us to be like them, to join with him and things of the world. It's obvious that that's what Satan wants, and he's going to do all that he can do influence others, who also have an influence on us and take our time, away from doing the things that we shouldn't be doing. But you and I, on the other hand, ought to be a strong influence for goodness on all those with whom we spend time as Christ use one illustration, sort of Paul also uses illustration, in Philippians. So do all things without grumbling or disputing, that you may prove yourselves to be blameless and innocent. Children of God above reproach in the midst of a crooked and perverse generation, doing what among whom you are seen as lights in the world, holding fast the word of life through little the day of Christ I may have caused to glory because I did not run in vain, nor toil in vain. What do others know of us? Our neighbors or schoolmates or workmates? What do they see in us? I remember some years ago that we had land in the in the church where you weren't Atlanta. We were having a scholarship. I think about these things sometime. And this man who's probably in his 40s or 50s, had gone back to Texas for a high school reunion. And one of his classmates, a young woman, well, she's an older woman now. She said, you know, always knew there was something different about you. What was it? I guess his light was shining. And she knew that he was not like the rest of those of the world, that he had a light that was shining. And she was aware of that. So what do others see in us? I hope they see a light shining in a dark world that they may know. There's something different about us. Would you be an example? Borrow to Timothy let no one looked down on your youthfulness but rather in speech, conduct love, faith and purity. Show yourself an example to those who believe. So not only as we get older are we to be wise shining, but even to those who are young to your schoolmates, your playmates, they should see something different than you. The we may like, be like a fella called Barnabas, Joseph A Levite, of Cyprian birth, who is also called Barnabas by the apostles, which translated means, Son of Encouragement. To Why are good examples, we are to be an encouragement. And even as we gathered here this morning together, do you realize that we're encouraging one another. The writer of Hebrews wrote about this in Hebrews, the 10th chapter, let us consider how to stimulate one another to love and good deeds, not forsaking our own assembling together as the habitus on but encouraging one another. And all the more, as you see the day drawn here. So just the fact that we're here this morning, and this good crowd gathered together, there's encouragement. And we don't need a large crowd. Even two or three gather together, is meaningful. For many years, my wife and I have done work in other nations. One of the nations is in Malaysia, which is a Muslim nation. And it's basically illegal for us to be there. So we meet in a house that put us on the front yard, say Christians, we here can put an ad in a newspaper. We just mean, and we encourage one another, to stay strong, and not be fearful of what's around us, as 1123. Then when he had come and witnessed the grace of God, he rejoiced and began to encourage them all with the resolute heart, to remain true to the Lord. Encourage them, as they were all gathered together. If we determine this, then what a blessing it will be. And I've already had that scripture up there. Somehow, in my mind, I repeated some stuff, for I said it, David. So if we determined to give the gift of time we offer important encouragement, and a great blessing. Then there is a gift of hope. Every soul in the world needs one gift more than any other. Because every soul will be a part of the all one day, but we shall all stand before the judgment seat of God, Romans 1014 We'll all be there. All the world will be there. And sadly, most will be on the wrong side. Matthew 25 as Christ was giving a picture of the judgment TOCOM and verse 41, He will say to those on his left, Depart from Me occurred once into the eternal fire which have been repaired for the devil and his angels. As we mentioned, most will be there. So our responsibility is to do what we can to be an influence, to give hope that so Psalm may be on the right hand side. What is the greatest deed of kindness that we can offer? what Paul said. Christ said that the harvest is plentiful. The workers are few. He gave us this responsibility involved Claire, Romans 116 are not ashamed of the gospel. For it is the power of God does everyone for salvation to everyone who believes, to the Jew first, and also to agree the power of God to salvation one act of kindness could be more important and long lasting. Then for us to offer the gospel to those that are lost this gift has been given to us that we might share it with others who are the others are neighbors or friends or schoolmates or co workers or strangers? store clerks. You never know. You will never know who is receptive until you ask. And I've had some people respond to the gospel in my years of service that I was never expected. It was a surprise what about the mechanic that worked on my car? Well, not him but his wife how to study set up with them. And his wife was one that responded. How about a blank a bank? clerk got a blank clerk but a bank clerk? At least two of those drugstore clerk do you get the idea? There are people there. And there are people that are receptive. We don't know who they are. We just have to inquire. Just see. Who has an open heart? How about this, Andrew gave his gift to his brother. Andrew found first his own brother Simon. And said to him we've found the Messiah which is trying to be in the Christ. He brought him to Jesus. Jesus looked at him and said, You are Simon the son of John. You should be called seafarers, which is translated Peter didn't during recording EDIUS. He gave his gift to his family and his friends. accent on the following day he entered says Maria. Now Cornelius is Peter corneas were waiting for them, feeder and his friends and had called together his relatives and close friends. He wanted them to hear Christ encounter the warmth well of soccer. And she offered the gift to the whole town about that. So the woman left her waterpark, went into the city and said to the man, come see a man who told me all the things that I have done. This was not the Christ is it? They went out of City, and we're coming to him. So this woman who had a bad reputation, she invited the whole round to come. And they came to hear Jesus. The Great Commission is the commission to every Christian because Christ commissioned us, as well as the apostles, you probably memorize this. Go therefore and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them the name of the Father, the Son, the Holy Spirit. Teach you then to observe all the Lord commanded you and will align with you always, even to the end of the age was a there. You teach them to do what I told you to do. Go make disciples, baptize them, teach them deliver about Unity does that make the great commission a commission do every single Christian thank the language. Pretty clear on that. And that's how the gospel spread throughout the world it's interesting in Colossae, the first chapter the Paul said, The Gospel spreads to the whole world. This is some 30 years after Pentecost. no radio, no TV, no vast travel. Obviously, the apostles could not cover the whole world in one generation. But actually a following the persecution, the death of Steven that Assad was wrong scattered abroad, and they went about preaching the word except the apostles who stayed in Jerusalem for a time. An hour but we have more to say about this and other lessons. Grace is back that Joseph went home and talked to a fellow who made horseshoes for his horse. Joanna went home and she talked to her next door neighbor and to the woman who there did her permanence. Talk to the next door neighbor. individual Christians carried the gospel. And if we determined to do that, we will offer the most important gift that could ever be given. And that is eternal life. There'll be many gifts exchanged this season most of which are material in nature. However, we must not forget to look for opportunities to share far more important gifts, kindness, time, hope of heaven. Of course, the greatest gift of all we mentioned there with hope of heaven isn't one prison this morning, who's had this gift in his life lost it. The door is still open. Christ is still waiting if you need to return to the Lord and repent of things in your life that led you away. If you're not a Christian, and never been closer to Christ, there'll be no better time in your life to come than this day. To come forward to confess your faith in Christ. To put him on baptism, to become a child of home of heaven and receive the gift of eternal life. Jesus said He is believed Dymatize shall be saved. If you subject to the invitation. What do you call it? We started together as we sing


Transcribed by https://otter.ai