Jeremy Sweets  00:00
Good morning. It's good to see everyone here today. I came in the building, I saw Miss Betty and I said, I'm looking forward to your good morning. It's been a little bit so happy. She's here. A few other sights and sound has always come in. I saw Miss Helen ways. He's looking pretty in blue. And she told me she's doing much better. So we're happy to hear that. One last thing before service. I heard Lucas say to his mom, you be jock a bit, I'm gonna be most he was ready for worship. It was very cute. We're so glad everyone's here today. We're certainly glad that we can come together and worship our God. It is a holiday weekend. So we know that there are many that are are traveling, we have visitors with this. We're thankful that you're here. I know that we have some among our number that are out and we may have others that are watching on live stream. So whatever the case is, we're glad that you're here to worship with us. The holiday, as you're likely aware, is Memorial Day Memorial Day. I like to spend just a few moments this morning talking about memorials, you know some things are so important that they should not be forgotten. To ensure remembrance. Often a memorial is set up in a memorial usually consists of some kind of permanent structure, some kind of stone or, or some kind of monument that's put up so that people can look upon that and remember, and remember, when you walk through a cemetery, you'll likely see hundreds of memorial stones, if not 1000s, a little marker that was placed there in front of a loved one that was buried that has their name, and their dates, and maybe a same. When I was child when I was a child, my mom suffered a miscarriage. And I remember that we planted a tree in the yard, so that we could remember my unborn sibling, and Barnard Castle, England, there was one Lady Margaret Smith. And in World War One, she sent five sons into battle. And over the next two years, she got five notices one after the other that said that your son had been killed in action. That town has a memorial not only with her sons, but with many others as well. In Bedford, Virginia, a national D Day Memorial was set up to remember 23 young men who lost their lives. That was a town of only 3200. They sent 30 men over and 23 died on the day that that location that town suffered proportionally the most severe losses on D Day and so they have a monument there to remember when September 11 struck. After we picked up the pieces and all the rubble, there was a memorial that was set up so that we can remember, not only do we remember certain events like that, but sometimes we set aside certain days that signify something special has happened, or missed this day, November 11, signified the end of World War One and was celebrated for a long time and still is in some places, on May 8, that's V Day Victory in Europe, signifying the end or the surrender of Germany's army and World War Two. Again, September the 11th. And even Memorial Day is the last Monday in May. And we set that aside to remember as a country, those that have fought in wars for our country, and particularly those that have given their lives. So memorials are something we're very familiar with. It's very common to us. But it's not only it's not something that's new to us. It's something that's been happening for a long time. In fact, if we open up our Bibles, I think we can see that there are several memorials there as well. And so I just want to look at some of these biblical memorials and see if we can gather some lessons from from what we see there. The first one I want to notice is in Bethel, and Bethel and Genesis 28, verses 18 through 22. There Jacob the patriarch was traveling through the promised land, and he had to take a nap, he had one to nap, but he went to lay down for the nights. He didn't have a pillow, you know, we often take our pillow with us when we go on vacation. We're very particular. He didn't have a pillow so he took a stone and he laid upon that pillow, or made it a pillow for himself. In the night he saw a vision in which there was a ladder or stairs and angels were descending and ascending the stairs and God Himself was At the top, and God told Jacob, his promises, you will inherit this land your descendants will be as numerous as the sand on the seashore, and I will be with you. In Genesis 28 And verse 18. It says this. So early in the morning, Jacob took the stone that he had put under his head, and set it up for a pillar, and poured oil on top of it. He called the name of that place Bethel. And Bethel simply means house of God. And there he made a covenant or a pact, a statement, that fuel will be my god, I will serve you, I will serve you. And so we see a memorial that was set up so that Jacob could remember that consisted of these stones. Now, their moral Memorial we see is the Passover, and Exodus 12, verses one through 20, you may remember that the Israelites are in Egypt, nine of the 10 plagues have occurred, and they are awaiting that 10th play, the 10th plague would be the most severe, it would be crippling to Egypt, and particularly Pharaoh because it would take the firstborn, take the life of the firstborn, that the firstborn would have been a very special child for Pharaoh that would have been the next in line. And even Even Pharaoh was considered a deity or a God. And so this was not just any ordinary normal person, but pivotal for the kingdom there. And so the 10th plank, though comes and we see that that all the firstborn die. But Israel is able to make preparations and they're able to sacrifice a lamb and take the blood of the Lamb and put it on the doorpost so that when the angel of death, the one that commits the, the vengeance for God, there, we see that it would pass over the house that had that blood on it, that that event, that saving event would be the Passover and it would be remembered for generations to come. And Exodus 12 And verse 14, it says this, this day shall be for you a memorial day, and you shall keep it as a feast to the Lord, throughout your generations as a statute forever. You shall keep it as a feast. See, God wanted Israel to remember this event, not only within that generation, but even beyond. You are to remember what took place here. And we'll see that this would be a method of teaching. Inquiring minds would say, why do we keep this feast? In verses 26 and 27 of chapter 12? It says this. And when your children say to you, what do you mean by this service? You shall say it is the sacrifice of the Lord's Passover, for he passed over the houses of the people of Israel and Egypt, when he struck the Egyptians but spared our houses. And so we see the Passover stands as a memorial. And it was a feast that occurred on a regular basis. They observe that day, every year. We also say that there was a memorial that Gil gow, and Joshua, we see that Joshua takes over for Moses as leader of the people and he is prepared to lead them across the Jordan River into the land of promise, so that they could take the land that had been promised to them. In the beginning of Joshua, they are on the eastern side of the Jordan River preparing to crossover. And they do crossover in Joshua chapter four, with the Ark of the Covenant they're crossing as well. Joshua would take 12 stones from the Jordan River and set it up on the other side as a memorial, so that they might remember, and it would memorialize their crossing of the Jordan River that parted just like the Red Sea so that Israel could, could cross over and it says, there in verse six, and I'm halfway through verse six, it says, When your children ask and time to come, what do these stones mean to you? Then you shall tell them that the waters of the Jordan were cut off before the Ark of the Covenant of the Lord, when when it passes over the Jordan, the waters of the Jordan were cut off. So these stones shall be to the people of Israel, a memorial forever. The stones that were placed on the other side were to be a permanent structure so that people can look at that and see these stones would be a reminder. I don't know about you. If you've ever been in a park or been someplace I occasionally will. There's a little waterfall up the road from us, we'll go there, and sometimes I'll see stones stacked upon one another. And often that's some kid playing is trying to stagger these stones. But it's amazing. You may go back a few weeks and those stones are still there. Well, here we see Joshua and the people taking these stones, setting them over and it was a memorial so that the people could remember so that they could remember what God had in Mizpah, in First Samuel seven, verses seven through 12. Here we find that Israel is victorious in battle against the Philistines, and and they took a stone and set it up as a memorial stone to memorialize the victory that they had that day. Notice what it says in verse 12, of First Samuel seven. Then Samuel took a stone and he set it up between Misbah and Shin, and called its name, Ebenezer. Free said, so now the Lord has helped us, Ebenezer, and we know that word from a song that we often seen, but Ebenezer simply means stone of hell. And so this stone was set up to remind the people of the help the provision, the salvation, that God had provided, the victory there, and come Thou Fount of every blessing. One of the verses reads like this, here, I raise my Ebenezer, here by thy great help I've come, and I hope by thy good pleasure safely to arrive at home, that that verse has confused a lot of people I remember growing up, what's an Ebenezer Is that some kind of raw, it's hard to know what that was, but that has referenced the First Samuel seven. And Ebenezer is simply a stone of help. And Ebenezer as a memorial are a reminder of what God has provided. And notice how fitting it is, and that song, without Oh, come Thou Fount of every blessing. God springs forth blessings for us, and we must remember it, we must keep that in mind. And so we see that we are to raise up reminders for ourselves of God's great provision, and what he has done for us. Notice in verses 15, and 16, though First Samuel seven, I found it interesting here that says, Samuel judge digital all the days of his life, and he went on a circuit year by year Bethel, Gil, Gao and Misbah. And he judged Israel and all of these places, you may notice that all three of those places are places where there were memorials. And this is something that Samuel would have went by every year on that circuits. Now, it doesn't say how we use these memorials, or how he looked at these, but I can't help but notice the same places where there were memorials, he would go on a circuit every year past these places, and judge and provide instruction for Israel, memorials, they are reminders to us for things that are important for us to remember. Now, the most important Memorial, they're really the same Mueller memorial that we can find in the New Testament is of the death of Jesus Christ. That's a memorial that we observe today, not because it's Memorial Day, or because we do that once a year. But that's something that we practice every Sunday, as we remember the greatest event that has ever occurred. Like the Passover, the Lord's Supper is a recurring Memorial meal. we partake of elements of the unleavened bread and the fruit of the vine. And we remember, as we partake, our thoughts go back. And we remember the cross of Jesus Christ, and memorializes his death. And again, it was not an ordinary death. It was not the death like so many military soldiers face, but it was a death for our sins of propitiation, so that he might satisfy the debt that we owe. And so we see the tremendous value of this memorial. And Luke 22 And verse 19, it says this, And he took bread. And when He had given thanks, He broke it and gave it to them saying, This is my body, which is given for you do this in remembrance of me. And likewise, the cup after they had eaten, saying, This cup that is poured out for you is the new covenant in my blood. We often have inscribed on our tables and stay the fact that when we take the Lord's Supper, this is in remembrance. It's a memorial. We are to remember our thoughts need to go back on Regular and continual basis to what Jesus Christ has done. There are some things so important, they should never be forgotten. They should never be forgotten. And for all of human history, the most important event is the death of Jesus Christ and is one that God wants us to remember. And so he provided for us a memorial Memorial. The truth is, memorials are important because we forget so easily. I likely don't even have to illustrate this point. You go into another room, you're headed on a mission, you get there and you say, Wait, why am I here? Why did I march into this room I knew just a second ago. And you have to talk it out and try to remember and sometimes you do sometimes you don't. We forget so easily. I was making a point to my my kids. The other day about Azure, he's getting bigger. He's old enough to begin, start taking some responsibility. I said, Azure is five years old. He is old enough. And my whole family looks at me, says Ezra six. We forget sometimes, don't we? Or maybe it's just hard to keep track. And I said, Well, my points still the same. We forget, we forget and it is so far, easy for us to get. So memorials are so important, so that we can remember. And they're not just for anything but for important things. In the book of Deuteronomy, we see the danger of forgetting the danger of forgetting and you see this in Deuteronomy, chapter eight, and verse 11. There are a chapter eight, and verse 11. Deuteronomy occurs right before Joshua, and this is as the Israelites are on the eastern side of the Jordan River as they're preparing to enter into the land of Canaan. Moses is giving his final speeches or exhortations to the people, and he tells them do not forget the Lord. Do not forget what he has done for you in the wilderness. Do not forget these things. Notice in chapter eight and verse 11, he says this, take care lest you forget the Lord your God by not keeping his commandments and his rules and his statutes which I command you today. First thing we notice here is that says Do not forget. And if you do, it will lead to disobedience. When we forget God, we fall away or ignore or dis obey his commandments. Disobedience is really an indicator of what's in our hearts, and our relationship with God. It doesn't just happen on accident. But it is an outgrowth, or it is an indicator that we are forgetting who God is. And so Moses tells the people do not forget the Lord. And one indicator, one clear indicator of forgetting God is disobedience, not obeying his commands. We see as we go on that, he says that, if you forget, your heart will be lifted up in pride. It says in verse 12, lest when you have eaten and are full, and have built good houses and live in them, and when your herds and flocks multiply, and you're several, and gold is multiplied, and all that you have is multiplied. Verse 14, then your heart be lifted up, and you forget the Lord your God who brought you out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of slavery. When we forget, it can lead us into disobedience. And when we act in a arrogant way, disregarding God's law, it can lead into pride, when we are filled with the things of this life. And how easy is it for us in this country, to have the possessions of this life and to simply say, we've done a good job. You know, I went to school, I did everything I was supposed to have got this job. I've worked hard and look at everything I have. Look at everything I've built for myself. Israel had that same temptation to look around the land that God gave them. And they could say to themselves, look what we have done. When we forget God, we tend to turn to ourselves and say that we have done all of this. And so he warns them a prod. Well, the problem with both of these things is that it leads to destruction. It leads to destruction. And verse 19 of this passage, it says, And if you forget the Lord your God and go after other gods and serve them and worship them, I solemnly warn you today that you shall surely perish, like the nations that the Lord makes to perish before you so shall you perish, because you would not obey the voice of the Lord, your God. And so we see That forgiving God has severe consequences and disobedience, pride and ultimately in destruction. Well, when we come to the New Testament, we realize that the greatest Memorial we have is the Lord's Supper, reminding us of the death of Jesus. What happens if we forget that or disregard that great sacrifice? We see mentioned that in Hebrews six, Hebrews six, and in verse one, it says, Therefore, let us leave the elementary doctrine of Christ and go on to maturity. As Christians, we need to grow up, we need to grow in our faith to mature so that we are putting behind us a life of sin. And verse four, it says, four, it is impossible in the case of those who have once been enlightened, who have tasted the heavenly gift, and have shared in the Holy Spirit, and I've tasted the goodness of the Word of God and the powers of the age to come, and then have fallen away, to restore them again to repentance, since they are crucifying once again the Son of God to their own harm, and holding him up to content. When Jesus Christ died, Hebrews 10, verse 10, tells us it was once for all, meaning once for all time, Jesus Christ will only offer that sacrifice one time. So what happens if we disregard that sacrifice? We treat it with content, we taste the goodness of God and we say, that's not enough. I want something else and we turn our back on God, will there be another sacrifice for us? Will there be another avenue, another way of salvation? There won't be Jesus Christ died once for all, the consequences of forgetting are very tragic, indeed. And we see that here in these passages. So those things were familiar to me as I looked at memorials before I noticed that there are things that are set up, there are reminders for us, that that help us remember. But one thing that I hadn't noticed before this lesson or paid attention to is that there are also memorials to God. God has Memorial. So let's notice a few of these memorials to the lore. You may remember in in the flood account that's arranged in a chiasm. But whatever you want to say about that there are two parts. And the central part of that story is found in Genesis eight and verse one. And we find that they are preparing for the flood, they are preparing for the flood, and then afterwards, the flood comes. So what happens in between? The statement in Genesis eight verse one says, And God remembered, Noah, God remembered Noah. That's an amazing thing that God has a memory now, God's not like us. He's not one that goes in another room and forgets that's not what it's talking about. But it was brought before him. He remembered, no, he showed him his kindness. Might we might say it like this, he did not forget, he did not forget. And so we find these memorials and I found that language to be very interesting. We see Memorial sacrifices in Leviticus chapter two. And verse one, it says this, When anyone brings a grain offering as an offering to the Lord, his offering shall be a fine flour, he should pour oil on it and put frankincense on it and bring it to the Aaron's sons, the priest, and he shall take it from a handful of the fine flour and oil with all its frankincense. And the priest shall burn this as a memorial portion on the altar of food offering with a pleasing aroma to the Lord. This is something that was offered as a memorial and it went up to God as a Remora memorial for him so that he might remember, and he might act, and he might provide the sacrifices that went up to him were a reminder of his promise and what he would do for his people. We see a money offering a numbers 31. Here we see that Israel had gained victory over the Midianites and they collected the spoils of war, and they brought it before the priest as an offering to God. In verse 53, it says this. And Moses and LEA is where the priest received the gold from the commanders of 1000s and of hundreds and brought it to the 10th meeting as a memorial for the people of Israel. before the Lord. And you'll notice that last phrase that all of this was brought as a memorial for the people of Israel before the Lord. And this offering was something that that came as a consequence or a result of God's provision. God had provided victory for them. And so the spoils were not something that they took for themselves, but they gave it to God and it served as a memorial to the Lord. We see the New Testament describes prayers in this way, particularly in talking about Cornelius, Cornelius and Acts Chapter Tim was a devout man who feared God, he saw a vision of an angel and it certainly frightened him. But the angel said, Do not be afraid, says this verse for your prayers and your arms have ascended as a memorial before God. The prayers and the arms that he gave, God took notice of God. Remember, it was a memorial before gone so that he noted what he had done. That was amazing to me, I know that we need reminders. And again, God doesn't need a reminder in the same way. And he's not faulty of memory like we are. But I find it amazing that what we do, can bring to God's memory or bring forward what he has promised and what he will do for us. And so that simply made me wonder now this language isn't used the the Lord suffer, but does it function in the same way? Possibly. I wondered about, does the Loris suffer the true Memorial we have in the New Testament serve not only as a reminder for us, but as a memorial before the Lord. And First Corinthians 10, verse 16, it says this, the cup of blessing that we bless, is it not a participation in the blood of Christ? The bread that we break, is it not a participation in the body of Christ, when we protect the Lord suffer, we participate with God. It's not a one sided affair. It is a participation in the death, the blood and the body of Jesus Christ. And verse 21, he says this. You cannot drink the cup of the Lord and the cup of demons. You cannot partake of the table of the Lord and the table of demons. Shall we provoke the Lord to jealousy? Are we stronger than he? His passage tells me that we can't. We can't treat the Lord's table in a contemptuous manner by dividing our devotion or allegiance, by by giving allegiance to him. And so the worlds are and to an idol. Now we must give it to him. But notice that phrase, shall we provoke the Lord to jealousy? If we were do that, God would be jealous. He does not want a split divided attention from us. But he wants us to be completely devoted to him. God takes notes of the Lord's Supper. And as we we remember him, I think it is a memorial even though it doesn't use that language, for him, reminds him of the great things he has done for us. And we are kept before his mind as we partake in the Lord's Supper. And I find that to be a truly encouraging note. We worry about being forgotten, don't we? Sometimes that's why we set up so many memorials. But God remembered Noah, and God can remember us. I'm struck by this lesson by the many similarities that we see between the memorials that we have and the memorials and Scripture, the memorials and general they keep the memory alive. They remind us of important events, and they also can produce questions. Children, others that aren't familiar with events may look at that and say, what happened here? Why do we do this, and it's an opportunity to teach and again to extend that memory. That's true of memorials that we have today. The ones I started with and in Scripture. Another thing we see is that it unifies people together, and it forges their identity. We talk about an identity as a nation and we talk about the wars that we fought the sacrifices the common things that we remember. That's true. Also in Scripture, memorials forged a unity of between people so that they would come together about who They are, they are what has happened to them what formed them. And for Christians, that is what is found in God. But I'm also struck by the differences between the memorials that we see so many around us, and the more morals we find in Scripture. And part we set up memorials to remind us, because we realize how easy it is to forget. Generations come and generations go. And often these memorials are about us, aren't they? I don't want people to forget the sacrifice of my son or the sacrifice of this individual. I'm not sure we could count up the number of memorials we have for people. We are so fleeting, aren't we? Life is so short. So when we talk about memorials, what was the first Memorial I started with? I'll have to go back to my notes, maybe one of the national ones we talked about World War one that's really not that long ago, 100 years. We're not talking about memorials for this Grecian individual that died and 300 BC are we we try to keep memory alive. But a lot of those things are simply forgotten. Especially when it deals with wars and, and nations. They come and go and individuals, we remember for a short time, but even then, it's a struggle to keep the memory alive. But you'll notice that the memorials in Scripture are not devoted to men that live this life and come and go but to God. They remember what God has done. And in that sense, there is a lasting nature to the memorial of Scripture. We are struggling to memorialize our temporary nature, but scripture points is to the one who does not die, who created all things who is living today. And that is God. Not only that, but we see that the memorials that we talked about. And that can be important. I'm not trying to say that we shouldn't have memorials today. But they pale in significance to the memorial that we partake in the the Lord suffer, it is the supreme Memorial. It rises to the top, Jesus and innocent man gave his life for our sins, not for a single nation, not to win a battle or a war, not not to save some individuals in a tragedy. But Jesus Christ gave His life for you and for me, because we have sinned and separate ourselves from God, and he has provided for us an opportunity to be restored to him. Hallelujah. Thank God. And let us keep that ever before our minds and remember that sacrifice. It may be that you're here this morning and you're not a Christian. Well, I hope you look to Scripture and you're reminded by those memorials by the things we see there of the great things that God has done. He continues to do great things today. And we need to remember that if you're not a Christian this morning, you have an opportunity to obey the gospel message, believing that Jesus is the Christ repenting of your sins, confessing Jesus as the Christ and being baptized in the water for forgiveness of your sins. If you're here today and you're a Christian, but you have forgotten your commitment, you have forgotten your God. You have forgotten your need for holiness. If you have needs as a Christian, you're not honoring your commitment then you need to make changes as well. There's any subject to the invitation please come as we stand and sing at this time.


Transcribed by https://otter.ai