Curtis Byers  00:01
Trust, you have been enjoying this beautiful day, the Lord's blessings with the beauty of this day of just one more reminder how much the Lord has truly blessed us. And when we were reminded of the Lord's blessings is obviously a good time for us to come together to worship. So thank you for being here tonight. As we come together to study God's Word and worship Him. We do have a few visual designs, you do need to understand that I'm not one of the regular ministers here at this location of this congregation. But I will do my best I can to try to bring to you some thoughts from Word of God. A few couple months or maybe three or four months ago, actually, Jeremy brought us a very fine a series of lessons on what he called biblical. I get this biblical faith biblical repentance, Bible confession and biblical baptism. I thought that was an excellent series that he that he delivered to us, I hope you remember those did tomorrow, Sunday night? And when you look at that list, for those of you who have you heard gospel preaching in the church for a long time, you're saying there's something missing? I told, I told Jeremy that there's he ought to include a lesson on biblical hearing. And he said, I ought to do that for him. It didn't exactly go that way. I told him that if he didn't do it, that I would do it, hoping that will spur him on to do it. But no, he said, I'll go ahead and do that. So tonight, I want to talk about biblical hearing. Clearly, there's this four weeks on that calls a five point plan of salvation is clearly a construct a human construction that we have taken from scripture, I believe. And it's not it's really not the entire plan of salvation, the plan of salvation begins in the mind of God is through God's grace that anyone can be saved. But these aspects of the response that we can give to God's F offer grace is something I don't think we do find in Scripture. So I think it's worthwhile for us to study it. I think Jeremy did a very good job at his lesson and showing that faith, repentance, confession, are not just things that we do to become a Christian, but rather are part of the Christian life. So that we have to do each and every day of our lives. Now, I hope to do the same thing with biblical hearing tonight. So hope this lesson is of some value to you as we think about this. Now, again, as a kid, when I hear people talk about these points, preachers usually give a list of scriptures after each one. And I did my duty, I'd memorize those scriptures, that was that we give expression to each of these ideas. And there might be multiple passages that one could refer to but about biblical faith or repentance or confession and baptism. Certainly, there seems like there was always one passage that everyone always used and sometimes just the one passage, whenever we talk about biblical hearing, by hearing the gospel, and you know the passage I'm referring to Romans 1017. So faith comes by hearing and hearing by the Word of God. That's the King James Version, I believe, on that. I like first started that passage, but let's look at the larger context. So let's begin reading in Romans chapter 10. And verse 11. Romans 10, verse 11. For the scripture says, everyone who believes in him will not be put to shame. For there is no distinction between Jew and Greek, for the same Lord as Lord of all bestowing his riches on all who call on him. For everyone who calls on the name of the Lord will be saved. How then will they call on Him who may have not believed? And how will they believe on Him and on whom they have never heard? And how shall they? How should I hear without someone preaching? And how are they to preach unless they are sent? As it has written, How beautiful are the feet of those who preach the good news? But they have not all obeyed the gospel for Isaiah says, Lord who has believed what he has heard from us. So faith comes from hearing and hearing through the word of Christ. Paul has his own little five point, step to salvation to salvation. He ends that with one calling upon the name of the Lord. He said all who called the name Laura shall be safe. Buddy, this says going in reverse order. How can someone call or whom they have not believed Good question, right? How should they believe or someone whom they have not heard? How shall they hear a less? someone preaches a less as a preacher who's preaches the word? How can a preacher preach unless the preacher is first sent. So this is Paul's five step plan of salvation. Our focus is going to be up on hearing. But I want to start at the end there about sending the preacher sending the preacher. There are two cases in Scripture that come immediately to mind that are relevant for our study. I think the first is Moses. You'll recall that God sent Moses to Pharaoh. And he had a very simple message for Pharaoh. Let my people go. Let my people go. That was the that was the singular message that Moses was to take to Pharaoh. As you recall, Moses was very reluctant. Moses didn't want to go. Moses tried his best to keep from going. But God insisted that he go and tell Pharaoh this will give Pharaoh this message. But what's interesting about that message is that God had already told Moses that farewell he would not let his people go. God would not the real not God, but rescue me and Pharaoh would not let these people go. How would you like to be given a message that you know, in advance, that's not going to be accepted? The very the one thing that you are told to go preach, and to have someone else do you know that very one thing is not going to be responded to favorably? The Pharaoh would not respond favorably. Now the Lord does empower Moses to perform some great science that the 10 plagues, and that compel Pharaoh to let the people go. But Pharaoh did not willingly do that. There's one other case where a preacher was sent. I'm thinking of Isaiah, who was sent to the people of Judah. In Isaiah chapter six, Isaiah sees a vision of God upon the throne. He has a wonderful vision. And at the end of that vision, the Lord I ask, Who will we send? And Isaiah, volunteers, he says, Here I am, send me he's anxious to go preach the message. He's anxious to be the preacher. Well, the Lord also gives a message to Isaiah, as recorded in verse nine, in 10, of Isaiah chapter six. The text says, And he said, Go and say to this people, keep on hearing, but do not understand. Keep a scene but do not perceive. Make the heart of this people don't. And their ears heavy, and blind their eyes as they see with their eyes and hear with their ears and understand what their hearts in turn and be healed. How's that for admission? The Lord, the words that are given to Isaiah sounds strange to us don't think don't let it sound strange to you. They do to me. That's not the sort of message you would expect to go in. Do not keep tell the people do not understand. Make the heart of the people don't blind their eyes less they should see in turn and be healed. That's not the sort of message one would expect. And I'm wonder if that's really the way that comes across is that really what what the Lord wants us to understand was that the was at the mission that Isaiah was given? Because there's another prophet who lived after Isaiah, whose name was Jeremiah. He was given a message as well to do or am Jeremiah chapter 36. Beginning verse two, let's read. He says, Take a scroll and write on it all the words I have spoken to you against Israel, and Judah and all the nations. From the day I've spoken to you from the days of Josiah onwards, until today. It may be that the house of Judah will hear all the disaster that I attended due to them, so that everyone may turn from as evil way and that I may forgive their iniquity and they're seeing Jeremiah been preaching for at least 20 years orally. But now the Lord says I want those things you've been telling people by mouth by word to put in writing. And why did he want you to do that? He said, It may be that when they hear these words read, they may turn, they may repent, and his God can forgive them. That's the sort of message we would expect God to give. How did it turn out? Well, if you keep on reading Isaiah chapter 36. Baruch, the secretary who wrote these words down for Jeremiah, he took those words and read them aloud to the temple. Some heard him that day and took him took the scroll and took it to Jehovah the king. And as they read these words to Jehovah from the King to Holcomb took out his penknife and every third scholem reading, he would cut it off and throw it into the fire. Did I come up with a third Right? Or is that just make that up? Maybe ever, maybe ever call him he cut it and threw it into the fire? My mind is every third when I can't remember those crimes are correct or not. He disposed of the text. Jehovah comm would not listen. And here's what the Lord says afterwards, he says, I will punish him and his offspring talk about Jehovah his offspring, and his service for their iniquity. I will bring up on them and upon the habitus of Jerusalem upon the people of Judah, all the disaster that pronounced against them, but they would not hear. The Lord tried to convince them, the Lord tried to make it easy for them to hear. He put it in writing, so they could see it and clearly understand, but they would not hear, they would not hear. So what are we to understand about these words of Jeremiah, Isaiah? Well, there's one more passage to bring to your memory. And second, Peter, Peter tells us that the Lord is not slogans to fulfill his promises, promises, some count slowness, but is patient toward you not wishing that any should perish? That all should reach repentance. That's the picture we have of God and Bible, isn't it? God is wanting people to repent. He's reaching out to people, he's wanting people to turn from their sins, and to repent and come to him. So then, how are we to understand these words in Isaiah, chapter six? Why is he telling Isaiah, to say to the people do not understand or do not perceive and to make their heart doll and to blind your eyes and so forth? Well, one scholar FF Bruce has offered this to help us understand. He's says, should this commission be pressed to mean that Isaiah was ordered to go and tell the people to pay no heed to what they had heard him say? No, indeed, that that is the impression given is simply due to the Hebrew tendency to express a consequence, as though it were a purpose. To express a consequence as though it were a purpose, you understand what he's saying. If our let me give an example, if I were if you were to give your kids some money, and tell them about where they want to buy, or they could save it, whatever they want to do with their money. And those kids turned around and went out and bought some ice cream with it, or book or whatever, say ice cream, that they should have bought a book. But they bought ice cream. Instead, I understand ice cream as well. They bought ice cream instead. What he's saying is that Hebrews was saying what to pack to places that you gave them the money so that they could buy ice cream? Did you give them money so that they go buy ice cream? Well, no, it wasn't it wasn't your intent at all. You just gave them the money. It was their decision to go buy the ice cream. But when you say Hebrews will express it Hebrew idiom with saying, let's say something like this, that you gave them the money so that they could buy ice cream. In this case, the point is that when God said his promise, it wasn't to make their own dollar hearing. Rather, that was going to be the consequence. They would dole their own ears. And Hebrews was said, as if God has set them to dole their ears. Does that make sense to you? To explain that well enough. Could it be that Professor Bruce is just wrong? He could be. I have found him to be a very helpful commentator. And someone who just asked me there a day not long ago, who I could recommend it quite often. I have learned more from the writings of Mr. Bruce, than probably any other mainline scholar. But having said that, there's something else that I think will help us demonstrate it. You remember that the Old Testament, the our English Bible is a translation of the Old Testament Hebrew Scriptures, right? The Old Testament was written in Hebrew. But about 200 years before the timer cries, some Jewish scholars took the Hebrew scriptures and translated into Greek, we call that the Septuagint, or the LM, l, xx 70. That this is the translation of the 70, or the Septuagint. And it's interesting to compare their translation is Septuagint. To the Hebrew, the Hebrew is the mass retic text, that's what the empty so that on your left hand side is the Hebrew text, which we just read. On the right hand side is the Greek text that says this and he said, Go and say this to the people, you will hear by hearing, but you will not understand and looking you will look, but you will not perceive For this people's heart has grown fat, and their ears, but with their ears, they have heard heavily, and they have shut their eyes that they may not see with their eyes and hear with their ears and understand what their heart in turn, and I would heal them. Apparently, those Jewish scholars 20 years toward the time of Christ understood it the same way Professor Bruce understood it. And that is, it would be true. That was Isaiah priest. They would not listen, they would not here. But it was their own choice. They close their eyes, they close their ears. Right? That's what the Septuagint the way it translates it. Now, you might say, Well, no, he still is the Hebrew, the original and a Greek translation. Isn't that just a translation by these by these human authors and it could be wrong? Well, I guess that's possible. But as you probably also know, as oftentimes is not a New Testament, when the biblical Apostles in Jesus quotes the Old Testament, is as likely that they're quoting the Septuagint as they are quoting the Hebrew. So they had a lot of cough, they put a lot of confidence in the Septuagint. In fact, this very passage, this very passage in Isaiah, is quoted in the New Testament Elise, fava K occasions that I know of the probably the most well known one is over Matthew, the 13th chapter. Matthew chapter 13, Jesus is preaching in parables. And when you get to verse 10, after he gives his first parable that we'll read in a minute. In verse 10, it says, the disciples came to him and said, Why do you speak to them in parables? The answer them to you is, has been given to know the secrets of the kingdom of heaven, but to them has not been given for the one who has more will be given, and he will have an abundance, but from the one who has not from what he would, even that what he has will be taken away. This is why I speak to them in parables. He then goes on, to quote, this Old Testament passage of Isaiah from Isaiah six. And his quotation is almost verbatim, the Septuagint, almost word for word, exactly the way the Septuagint reads, is the way Matthew records the words of Jesus. So I think we're in pretty solid ground to say that the way that the Septuagint reads, is a proper understanding of the Hebrew text. And the point is not that Isaiah was to go and make it hard for people to understand. He was to go preach the word that God had given him the preach. But it would be true that people would not respond, not everybody, not everyone will respond to the Word of God. And hence the importance of hearing. Okay, the proper hearing of God's word. What does it have to do with what does it how does this ask the question, the question was, why do you speak to them in parables? A lot of people give an answer to that question. And I don't want to go too far down this path. I'm hoping one day to be able to teach a class on the parables and be more appropriate maybe to talk about neck context. But it is part of this. Obviously part of this passage we're looking at and I've heard a lot Row wide range of answers is how this passage Isaiah relates to the question. Why does Jesus speak in parables? So I'm thinking, kind of like the way the Hebrew text reads Some think that Jesus spoke in parables to make it difficult for people to understand something that something does not DOCSIS. Something has to make that make it easy for people to understand. So they wouldn't have any excuse not to know. I don't know. There's a wide range of gamma silver, the answer is probably in there somewhere. I don't know where it's at exactly. I would offer a couple of years, Fausto. Back in 1978, for the head harrow was hearing the gospel meeting. I know exactly what 78 Because was the year after Terry and I got married and I can remember we're in sin. We married in 77. Right. Okay, got that right. I remember the next summer we had a gospel meeting here brother Harold was here with us in that meeting. I know was also that year because we headed over to the house for dinner ahead of time and you're in our little apartment or 500 square foot apartment there. And overall by Vanderbilt, he came to dinner with a nice very cordial, very he didn't care what size house we had or he didn't have he didn't care. And those of you know brother Harrow, he's, he's a he's a very adept speaker. Very sharp, man he died recently isn't well missing. Baby said, he's gonna speak one of the nights on why did Jesus preach in parables? And I can remember being anxious wanting to hear that lesson, because this question had already bugged me. You know, I finally who I will learn the lesson and answers that question. Well, I listened carefully all night long. I don't have any notion that night, but I know, I know exactly the conclusion that brother Harold made. When he got it all said and done. He said this. He said that parables accomplish exactly what God wanted them to accomplish. Now those of you know, brother Harold, that's the best vintage at Harold. He leaves more questions than he the answer. Yes, that's a true statement, isn't it? It's almost a truism. Because whatever God does, it does it his wheels always accomplish, it always brings about the effects that he wasn't to bring about. So I'll leave that one with you. But I think there's something else we could do another connection we can make here. If you go back up, if you're in Hebrews 13, excuse me, Matthew 13 When Jesus began to preach the parables, and Matthew records it for us on verse one, it says, That same day, Jesus went out of the house and sat beside the seat, and he began to speak to them in parables. What same day, if you go back to chapter 12, this this very same day to math is referred to as the very same day that Pharisees looked at the miracles of Jesus that he had he healed, a demon possessed man, He cast out a demon of a man. And the Pharisees looked at that and said, That's the work of Satan. Jesus is Beelzebub. He's He does this by the power of Beelzebub, the prince of the demons. Can you imagine that? You see a miracle performing before your very eyes, and you ascribe that act to the devil. That's what they did. I think the point of quoting Isaiah six was basically to say that the Jews of Jesus's day were in the same category of the other people back in Isaias day. They were as resistant to the will of God as those back in Isaias days were resisted to the will of God. And these words are a testament to their unwillingness to hear and to accept the will of God. And I think that's the right connection because I said this passage was quoted in other places to other places this is quoted, besides Matthews marks version of this parable. In John chapter 12, after Jesus's triumphal entry into Jerusalem, this is the very end of Jesus's ministry. John gives a little summary. He says, even though he had performed so many signs before they own, they still did not believe. And then he quotes this passage from Isaiah. So John made the same connection right between the Jews of Jesus's day and to the people of Judah. Back in Isaiah his day, he ties the two together via this quotation, how that they did not accept the, in this case, again the miracles. And then Luke also at the end of his to volume account of the ministry of Jesus, and a history of their early church. And Acts chapter 28. Paul is in Rome, in chains, and we're told that some Jews of the city came to talk to Paul and to hear Paul preach. And then the text says, and some believed, but many disbelieved. And he goes on to say so to fulfill the words of Isaiah, the prophet, you ever hear, fulfill, remember, think, feel full. The Jews of Paul's day feel full this prophecy, they completed this prophecy. That was true of the those in Judah back in the days of Isaiah, true of those who during the ministry of Jesus, and now those who 30 years later were had listened to Paul and it rejected the Gospel. Right now, this has always said within the context of a parable, but I want us to focus our attention on this parable just for a few minutes before we finish tonight. So let's go back let's begin in Chapter A Matthew 13. And let's read the parable beginning of verse three. Matthew 13 Verse three cuz I think this parable, ties all percentiles all pours very nicely. He told him many things in parables saying, a sore without the soul. And as he sowed, some seeds fall along the path, and the birds came and devoured them. Other seeds fell on rocky soil. But when the sun rose, they were scorch. And since they had no root, they withered away. Other seeds fell among the thorns and the thorns grew up and choked them. Other seas fell on good soil and produce grain, some of Hunter phone, hundredfold, some 60, some 30. He who has ears, let him hear. I'm sorry, I should let you read it on the screen. Sorry. That last phrase tells a story. He who has ears? Let him hear. Now we're familiar with this parable. The disciples though did not understand what it meant. And that's why they went to Jesus in question, you know, what does this parable mean? But Jesus does give them the interpretation, this parable. Let's read that as well. So let's go down to verse 18. There's only two parables that Jesus actually gives us the interpretation, this one and the one that follows this just a little bit later. Matthew 13. He says here the end of parable, the sower. What anyone hears the word of the kingdom and does not understand it, the evil one comes and snatches away what was sown in his heart. This is what's sown along the path, as well as Sona rocky ground, this is the one who hears the word and immediately receives it with joy. And yet he has no root in himself, but endures for a little while, in when tribulation or persecution arises on account of the word, Amelie falls away. As for what was sown among the thorns, this this is the one who hears the word, but the cares of the world and the deceitfulness of riches choke the word improves on fruitful as what was sown on good soil. This is the one who hears the word and understands it. He indeed bears fruit in yields, in one case, 100 fold, and another 60 and another third. Jesus says, that the sower who went out to sow seed, the seed is the Word of God. And the four different types of soil of which that sower sewed his seed, the four different soils represents four different types of human hearts and his four different responses to the word that was sown. Just give you a few observations. First, Jesus calls us the parable of the sower. He puts the emphasis on the sower. But he doesn't tell us who the sower is. Presumably, the sower is Jesus. But what is this parable? Tell us about Jesus. This is the parable of Jesus about Jesus. What does it tell us about Jesus? Well, What did this What did the Twitter the sower do? He cast his seed on all types of ground grounds that would have been considered inappropriate to cast seed on like the pathway, a hardened path. You would not expect it perhaps to grow and produce fruit, a harvest. But Jesus sold it there anyway. And he sold it even among the thorns in Soto in the rocky soil. He sold it on the good soils. Well. The lesson I learned from that is that God that Jesus does not prejudge where he's going to sow the seed, he sews it abundantly. He has plenty of seed. It's not as if he's gonna run out and see, he has plenty of seed. He's gonna He's so abundantly. You know, some may think, you know, the sower was crazy for casting it on the hardened soil. The same people probably would think the Lord was crazy for asking Jeremiah to put all these words in a book that's going to be cut off just a few days later. Start crazy as greats. Right as greats. God gives grace to everyone. He His Word is sown abundantly. And people can determine who can how they respond. And that's the second lesson I was think we should learn is that we are responsible to how we respond. The Lord has taught praying and His Word has been taught plainly to us in Scripture. And we can listen, we can read it, we can understand it, and we can choose, how will we respond to it, it's up to us. It hasn't been pre predetermined how we're going to respond. Now, you know, the trodden is the pathway, soul and the rocky soul because you might say, Well, those are that way and there's nothing they could do about it. Well, that's that's not the point of the that's not the point of the parable, right. The point of parables just describe the different ways people do respond to it. But we can we can respond any way we choose to respond, we can become the good soil or we can be the we can be the heart and soul we can be what kind of soil we want to be. We can respond the way we want to the Word of God. But thirdly, the power is in the sea. Right, the power is in the sea. You know, Paul's told the Romans, that the gospel was the power of Gods for salvation, the gospel is the word of God. Paul said in the first two brothers and Christian Corinthians, as by the foolishness of the things preached, that God says, has saved people. Right, the power is in the Word preached. Sin the word preached. In his, in his telling the story, notice that all for the soils heard the word, all four of them heard the word. The first one does not understand it, the last one understands it, even more than that produces fruit. And just like the last saw, the good soil produces fruit. That's the last observation I would want to make four. We are expected to respond favorably to God's word and to produce fruit produce a harvest. What does that mean? But maybe it's helpful to remember the fruit of the Spirit has given to us in Galatians to fifth chapter. The fruit there that Paul's identify as love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentleness and self control. Against such there is no law. He who has ears let them hear. The gospel has been proclaimed throughout the entire world. And we should continue to proclaim to throughout the world in this neighborhood are our own neighborhoods. Gospel needs to be the gospel needs to be preached. So people can hear. And they have to be able to hear in order to make a choice. In order to make a choice. People need to understand about the goodness of God and the grace that He has shown to us through His Son, Jesus, and the offer of eternal life that has given to all those who respond in faith to Jesus. People need to hear that message. There will be those who will reject it out of hand. There will be some like the rocky soul will receive it at first, but then we'll turn away because they have no depth of sold. Jesus said, there'll be some who will who will here, and we'll keep it for a while. But then the cares in the world of deceitfulness of riches will choke it out. That can happen. We understand that going in, that can happen, right? Is that does those possibilities keep us from preaching the word? No. Because there are also those who are classified as good soil, who will hear it, who will accept it, who will understand it, and who will do it, and live it. Those are the people we're trying to reach. Those are the ones we're trying to reach. So let's continue to preach the word so people can hear. And listen, let's pray that they hear correctly. He who has ears, let him hear that's an imperative. Right? We are to we are to hear God's word clearly and correctly. That's our obligation. And only when we do Can we can we respond and produce the fruit that God would have us to produce in our own lives. Maybe there are some here that even this night, who have heard the gospel, who have who believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, that He came to, for to take away our sins. And that's the case we would call upon you to repent, turn from the sins that has caused Jesus to go to the cross, turn away from them. That's what repentance is to turn away from those things that God is not pleased with. confess the name of Jesus before others and come and be baptized, calling the name of the war lord washing away one scenes x 22. If we can be of any help to any here tonight, we want to do that. Let me make one other comment. There is no easier time to respond to the gospel than now. If you believe the message and you know that the Lord is calling upon you to respond, now is the best time to respond. You do not know what tomorrow will bring. You do not know what your heart will be like tomorrow. Whether you be willing to respond or not. But if you're willing, we ask you to come and respond to the gospel message at this time as we stand as seen this decision


Transcribed by https://otter.ai