Good to be with you this evening glad to see those that are present. We've come in the presence of God, to worship Him, to encourage one another, and hopefully to learn something from his word. Do you ever have to rebuke a child who's misbehaving? How many times have I told you, maybe a little ones disobeyed mom, or dad, or even a teenager who's been hanging out with the wrong crowd. And we want to review them, and try to get him back some better decisions in life. On occasion, you might find one that was in a crowd that got arrested for something, and they're in trouble. So the question is, you should have known better. I'm sure all parents have been there in some fashion or another. We expect our children to use common sense, and their everyday lives. But according to the level of their maturity, as we know, they learn and make better decisions hopefully, as they as they grew up. And sometimes the words that we speak to our child may be act your age, if I ever use that word, I'll see a few nods out there. And you know, why don't you grow up? Well, we find the situation the same with some other children. And they want to call children of God. The writer of Hebrews gave a rebuke. He views as though he was the son yet learned obedience with a vein which He suffered, and haven't been made perfect, He became unto all them that obey Him, the author of eternal salvation, named of God, a High Priest as of the order of Melchizedek. Often we have many things to say, and hard of interpretation, seeing you are dull of hearing. For when, by reason of time, you ought to be teachers, you have need, again, that someone teach you the rudimentary, the first principles, the oracles of God. And it becomes such as emptied of milk and not a solid food. For everyone that protects the milk is without experience, in the word of righteousness, for he is obeyed. But solid food is for full grown men, even those who by reason of us had their senses exercised to discern good. And evil is really a double rebuke. He said, You don't love hearing your unskillful in the word of righteousness. And now they need to be taught again. They've been taught. But now they need to be taught again. Evidently, they had not kept up with the learning and continue to advance. So it's maybe even they lost some of the understanding that the head, so now, the writer tells them, it's trying to grow up trying to grow up. For wind by region of use, you should have known these things. So why is the knowledge of seven Christians defective? For some, it may be a lack of serious Bible study. And in our environment for which we live, there are many things which hinder us jobs, fan responsibilities, the TV, in school, friends, etc. Internet. But all these really justify our excuses. All these things that keep us from really spending time into what we need to be doing. Even though the Old Testament is good for us, they were what Romans 15 for whatever was written in earlier times were written for our instruction so that through that perseverance of encouragement of the scriptures, we might have hope, even the Old Testament and yes, some of it is tedious to read. Floor live in our in our reading schedule. We're reading through the Bible in one year. And there are certain parts of the Old Testament that just repeat themselves over and over. But it's reserved for us for a reason, for a purpose. God knew what He was doing. And he had these words preserved for us for learning today. Some a lack of learning might be the neglect of parental instruction, parental instruction. How many parents make their children get their homework when they come home from school? Nobody TV, and did you get your homework? I'm sure that's been pretty common with a lot of people. But haven't these parents encourage the children to do the same about their Baba class lessons? Maybe Sunday morning, Wednesday evening. How many families have a devotional period, about reading period together? Something is vital, vital. We used to have one, nine kids at breakfast we've had already breakfast. And we invited some neighborhood kids, and they would come and be with us. And to those young people were baptized in time. Visions, six, for very for your passage, fathers. Do not provoke your children to anger. But bring them up in the discipline and instruction of the Lord. Go back to the Old Testament and God's instructions in Israel. Deuteronomy six these words which I'm commanding you today shall be in your heart. Usual teach them diligently to your son's and she'll talk that when you sit in your house when you walk with away when you lie down. And when you rise up, you should bind them as a sign on your hand, they should be as frontals on your forehead used to write them on the doorposts of your house or on your gates. They will put a portion of Scripture where little deal on the head on their arms. doorpost of your house that's called Mezuzah. When for I were in Israel, places where we stayed, even in a hotel room. On the doorway edge there, there's a little metal cup at a scripture in it. And their practice was whatever they left the house with a rub their hand over that as a reminder that they were service of God, and that he was with them. I thought was pretty neat. Pretty neat. So parents want the children to grow up and be successful. To do well in school, you get a good education. You get a good job to be successful in life. Don't they want the same thing for their children and their spiritual life? And the rewards that come from them? Do they give the same attention to spiritual education as they do to their physical education and mothers? Have the partners will you remember Paul wrote to Timothy are mindful of this sincere faith within you which will first will in your grandmother, Lois and your mother you and I see that I'm sure it's an EU all you as well. Can we this father's not a Christian. But he was a very devout and spiritually minded young man. He got this from his mother and his grandmother. They weren't a part of his education. What the problem was saw me is a regular attendance. When Christians gather together, it's now the problem. It's been around for a long time. And we see this even in the Hebrew letter Hebrews 10. Let us hold fast to confession of our hope without wavering for he you promised is faithful. And let us consider how to stimulate one another to love it good reads, not forsaking the assembling of ourselves together, as is the habit of Psalm. So this is not a new problem. It's been around for a few 1000 years. We do encourage one another. And all the more, as you see the day drawing near. It's interesting that this review here is given to the same ones that we saw earlier in the hour, but those who are by reasonable time need to be adults. But they're still babes and they need to be taught. Taught again. Just going to church will not make you a Christian. But those who only returned only attends sporadically will never grow up and be mature as a Christian. My experience has been so many time that they will fall away eventually and be lost. So how would you relate this with going to school or going to work? Well, I was tired this morning because I've stayed up late last night watching TV so I didn't go in my work today. I fall will that go over your boss? Probably not very far. Well, I got a splinter in my finger yesterday and I didn't feel like going to school today so maybe I get an excused absence from school I don't think that'll go very far. But that's about what we tell the Lord sometimes the Lord has heard on Jesus before he's heard of all we don't have to use uses outlook here look the 14th chapter because you don't have a man was giving up a big dinner invited many enter the dinner hour he said a slave to say those who have been invited come for everything ready now. But they all like began to make excuses. The first one said I bought a piece of land I need to go out and look at it. Please consider the excuse was you've raised money to come dig it up and carry oil under another said, I bought five yoke of oxen. I'm going to try them out. Please consider me excused. Will they be there tomorrow? Are you gonna sprout wings and fly away? What's What's the deal there? The servant said, Lord, what you did command is done and yet there is room and the Lord said to discern, go out to the highways and hedges and constrain them to come in that my house may be feel for us say to you that none of those mean that we're bidding shall taste by dinner. Another problem in some churches may be preaching that does not edify. Preachers, and teachers have their own responsibility. When the sheep come in to be fed, they expect something that is nourishing. They expect some nourishing food. And Paul gave instruction to a young preacher, person with a four. Let no one look down on your youthfulness, but rather in speech, conduct love faith and purity. Show yourself an example of those who believe until I can give attention to the public reading of Scripture to exhortation and teaching. Do not neglect the spiritual gifts within you, which were bestowed on you through prophetic utterance with the laying on of hands of the presbytery. Take pains with these things, be absorbed in them, so that your progress will be evident to all pay close attention to yourself and to your teaching. Persevere in these things. For as you do this, you will also ensure the salvation more than yourself. And for those who hear you. Timothy, you take care. you persevere these things. You learned you be a good teacher. You'd be a good teacher. preachers are responsible for the example in their lives. Show yourself Timothy, an example. Those who believe that responsible for the preparation of their teaching, take pains with these things be absorbed in them. Well as your progress will be evident to all future of donor preachers who may had some miles to drive on Sunday to go to the church building. And then get someone to drive for them while they sat there preparing the lesson. I'm not sure how instructive the liquid was. If that's the all the all the time that they spin on it. So, Timothy, be diligent, be diligent in these things. Pay close attention to yourself and to your teaching, persevere in these things. So then, why spiritual maturity is so important. For one thing, reverence to God demands it requires it. After all, this is God's word. This is a letter that he has written to us to guide us to heaven 12 Psalm verses the words of the Lord are pure words, as silver tried in a furnace on the earth, refined seven times, out of 19 song, verse 97. All How I love your law, it is my meditation all the day as more than we should not have Sunday morning or Sunday night. It's something we should give attention to. Day by day. Your Bible is more than a paperweight. It's more than a decoration on the table is more than a dust collector on the shelf. So suddenly, can you take it out, you blow the dust, and also you can have a clean Barbie ring church with you. Secondly, duty to our souls demands that we take medicine to keep the body healthy. What about some medicine to keep the soul healthy? Proverbs 30 Verse five, every word of God has tested. He is a shield to those who take refuge in him. Or not donatien Psalm, your word is very pure. Therefore your servant loves it. First, every three. All Scripture is inspired by God and profitable for teaching, for reproof, for correction, for instruction, in righteousness in training and righteousness. So that the man of God may be adequate, equipped for every good word. If a doctor gives us a prescription what do we do with it? I hope we take it. If there's some sickness and illness within us, we need to respect his knowledge. And what he's given to us to help cure that are about Matthew four four, man should not live by bread alone, but by every word that proceeds out of the mouth of God. So what is the prescription that the great physician has given to us? 41st Psalm as for me, I said, Oh, Lord, be gracious to me heal my soul, for I have sinned against you. Heal my soul. Here's some of the prescription God has given to help us in healing our souls may expect babies to grow to maturity. And if they don't, we know something is wrong. And we take them to a doctor to see what we might do to correct the deficiency in their growth. Got also expect spiritual babies to grow. And when we don't grow spiritually, what do we call that disease? It's called sin. It's called sin. Now these people to whom the writer of Hebrews are writing, they had time and opportunity for when, by reason of time, when by reason of time, and Who's he talking to? Not just preachers. He's talking to all Christians. A third matter has to do with our usefulness to others demands our spiritual maturity. When we become established in the Word, we are expected to be teachers of others when you say for when by reason of the time, you ought to be teachers that's not running. He's not running this to preachers. He's running to all Christians. The time has come when we should be mature enough that we can be an instrument for teaching our neighbors our friends our schoolmates, our fellow workers. Like that's what it says to me. So many places always leave them to the preacher as his job well not as part of his job. But that doesn't eliminate the rest of us. Peter talks about certain readiness on our part. First Peter 350 in the sight of Christ as Lord in your hearts, always being ready to make a defense to everyone who asked you to give an account for the hole that is in you. Yet with meekness or gentleness and reverence. Christ talks about the matter of bearing fruit. John 13 chapter on the true vine My Father is the vinedresser. Every branch to me that does not bear fruit he takes away. And every branch that bears fruit he prunes into little may bear more fruit, you're already cleaned because the word was spoken to you. Abide in me. And I knew, as the branch cannot bear fruit except to the bite of the vine, so neither can you except you by me. I am the vine, you are the branches. He who abides in me around him, he bears much fruit, for apart from me, you can do nothing. If no one has done abide in me, he is thrown away as a branch and draws up and they gather them and cast them to the fire. And they are burned. And they are burned. So what is the fruit he's talking about here? This is not the fruit of the Spirit. Love joy, peace, goodness, kindness, long suffering. What is the fruit of an apple tree? Think is another apple in what would the fruit of a Christian be then in this sense? Another Christian. So what would you do if you saw your neighbor's house on fire? And knew they were asleep in there? Would you do all within your power to wake them up? So they could come to safety? And you know what you would do? What about our neighbor that is lost. And were burned in the fires of hell. Have we done anything at all? To help them avoid that. So on the application, if we want to go to heaven, we've got to grow up, grow up. Time to get out of our baby diapers and clothe ourselves of Christ that admonition to the church at Laodicea revelation 318 advise you to buy from Me gold refined by fire so that you never become rich and white collars, that you may close yourselves, and that the shame of your nakedness will be revealed, and ourselves to anoint your eyes. So that you may see. So that you may see. So whose responsibility is it for the church to grow? As I mentioned earlier, it's often as the preacher, the preacher. There are three ways for a church to grow. One is to have babies and raise them. And I'd say Broadmoor did a good job of that did a good job of that. Your rails will roll by Christian moving in from other areas. Well, that that church is depleted while we grow. The third way, of course, is to win souls to Christ, and bring them to the Lord. Bring them to the Lord. And certainly preachers have their own responsibility that they cannot bear the burden alone. Remember the text from Hebrews 512. Written to all the readers, for by this time, you ought to be teachers, that are in Ephesians 416. From the whole, from whom the whole body fitted and held together by what every joint supplies, according to the proper working of each individual part, caused the growth of the body with a building of of itself in love. Every joint the working of each individual part causes the growth of the body building himself up in love. Maybe there's a whole term now that one verse I don't know might be and that's talking to every one of us, old, young, male, female and that love part there Who wants to be a part of a church where there's not abundant love. The people come together and they pretty well keep to themselves. services over, they walk out and go home. It is encouraging that I see this congregation here that are several minutes after the service is over. People have sent around, they're talking to one another, spending time together. That's encouraging. That's encouraging. So the question is, Will God accept the spiritual babies into His kingdom? who by reason time should have grown up? There still have to be fair model. I don't know what the situation there is with Easter still a bottle he has he had grown up very much. Sitting in a church building will not make one a Christian anymore. That a fox sitting in the henhouse when I came in. It takes more than just skimming and sitting in the church building. So I pray the less will encourage all of us to strive to enter in. Notice the word in Luke 13. Strive to enter in through the narrow door for many assay will seek to mentor and will not be able. None of us are going to coast in it takes effort to be found a faithful servant. So close the lesson. If there are those hearing this afternoon, whose lives have not been as they should be as a Christian. You need to make a determination to change your life. To get more involved to be serious about this, I pray your diesel if you need to make a public confession and some way that we may help you or if you need to be put on Christ and baptism to become a child of God and start your journey to heaven. Would you come we stand together and as we sing


Transcribed by https://otter.ai