so encouraging to have an opportunity to worship God today with you all to sing the mighty power of God of one of my favorite songs appreciate the songs that Marshall led this morning appreciate the worship the Lord suffered norms prayer. We need strength for our trials and difficulties and challenges I certainly do. And God provides that to us. And we just want to continue to put our trust in him. One of the things that's benefit beneficial for us, we talked about in our Bible class this morning is some kind of a daily or regular Bible reading program. I hope that you're on one. Probably none of us do it perfectly. And I certainly don't as well. But it makes a big difference in our lives. And recently, I've been reading in the section in the zekiel, Chapter 37. I'm not sure how many read that. But it seems like it comes along every year, but at the same time, he's he can chapter 737 is one of the most compelling chapters in the Bible. It's a scene that God paints for us of a valley of dry bones. And I thought in years past about working a lesson on this, I never did, I said them, I'm going to finally go ahead and do that when you do a new lesson where you're not getting an outline off something online. It's just hard to come up with that. But he's he killed chapter 37 got my attention, I decided I want to get my focus on this chapter. Because the the message is so compelling, and so powerful for us is we face trials or difficulties are temptation. In this chapter, the zekiel is taken to a valley of dry, brittle bones, no life it all there. And as you visualize this, we'll be looking at that text in just a moment. But as you visualize this, it's a it looks like a place of complete impossibility, and utter hopelessness. There's no hope for these dry bones. They're brittle, they're fragile, they're dead. There's nothing in them. And don't forget Israel's in Babylonian captivity. And they've been through horrific suffering and oppression and all types of stuff that's hard for the human mind to even fathom. But they're there because of their sins. And this place of hopelessness. God predicts and promises that he'll bring those people back to their land that he had given them originally. And although it looks like it's impossible for them, a valley of dry bones to be revived and restored. That's exactly what God is saying in Ezekiel chapter 37. So by the way, the context chapter 36, God is also predicting the return of Israel from their Babylonian captivity from this place of spiritual deadness. And then in chapter 37, we'll look at that this morning, the last part of that predicts a reunion of Judah and Israel. So God says, I know what's going on here. And I know the pain that you're dealing with, but I'm going to bring you back amazing as it may be, to the promised land to the land that you've had before. And so even though chapter 36 and 37 predict the return of these God's people from Babylonian captivity, and chapter 37, we see a glimpse of the dire straits that these people are in the utter hopelessness, it looks like something that is utterly impossible to come out of. And so in this context, God asks easy keyless question, it asks us the same question. Can these bones live? That's the question that God asked the zekiel. And really, God is asking us the same question, Can God take these dry bones and resurrect them into living beings and restore his people to his land? So

that's the question that he zekiel is being asked by God. And I've chose that to be the title of my lesson. And so we're going to be looking at a zekiel Chapter 37 This morning, and just focusing on the text, the first 10 verses describe the scene. And then verses 11 through 14, give the, the application or the interpretation of that. So look at these verses with me. This is really one of my favorite ways of preaching, just taking this the text of God's Word and read it, comprehend it, and then apply it to our lives. Look through the lessons that God is trying to teach us. So in chapter 37, verse one says that the hand of the Lord came upon me and brought me out in the spirit of the Lord. So zekiel is in a vision and set and set me down in the midst of the valley. It was full of bones than it caused me to pass by them all around. So as he was walking through these dead bones, and behold, there were very many in the open Valley Indeed, they were very dry. And he said to me, Son of man, can these bones live? So I answered, oh Lord God, you know. And he said, again, he said to me prophesied to these bones and say to them, oh, dry bones here, the word of the Lord, Thus says the Lord God to these bones, surely I will cause breath to enter in breath to enter into you, and you shall live. And I will put sinews on you, and bring flesh upon you, and cover you with skin and put breath in you, and you shall live and then you will know that I am the Lord's first seven. So I prophesied as I was commanded. And as I prophesied, there was a noise and suddenly, suddenly a rattling, and the bones came together, bone to bone, indeed, as I looked, the sinews or the tendons, and the flesh came upon them, and the skin covered over them, but there was no breath in them. Also, he said to me, prophesied to the breath, prophesized Son of man, and save to the breath. Thus says the Lord God come from the four winds, old breath, and breathe on the slain, that they may live. So I prophesied as I was, as He commanded me, and breath came into them, and they lived in stood upon their feet and exceedingly great army. What a compelling story What a shocking image to see, as God brings Ezekiel and the spirit in this vision into a valley of very dry bones. And God asked, easy kill is equal, can these bones live? And he says, oh, Sovereign Lord, only? You know the answer to that question, can these bones really live? And Zico did not know the answer to that question. He didn't, he thought it was impossible. But he said, God, you know that. So God then commands is equal to prophesy to speak to dead bones. And is he killed does that he speaks and prophesize to these dead bones, and he tells them to come back to life and they begin to come back to live and and breath is going to enter them to tendons and skin will cover them. And the purpose here is so that they will know that God says that I am the Lord. So Zika prophesize. And as he prophesies, he hears the bones rattling. And then skin begins to grow and tendons are attached to the bones. And in this rattling, eerie sound in his belly, and this isn't sex, obviously, from which the old spiritual song came Dem bones, and the toe bone is connected to the foot bone in the foot bone is connected to the heel bone, and not sure if that's the exact order of that. But that's that's the text right here. And it's a classic song that many of us may have sung in years past.

This called Dem bones and so the message is Dem bones gonna rise again. And they certainly did so seek heal prophesized to the dead bones, and they grew tendons and skin, they connected with each other. And yet there was no breath in them. And so we prophesied to the breath, and he breathed on them and life came in to these bones. They stood up on their feet, this great, magnificent army. So again, just imagine what is he keyless thinking about in this vision, he's speaking to these bones, they're dead, they're lifeless, they're they're brittle. There's no hope in there. And they start shaking together and rattling. And then they stand erect like a man like an army. And again, a very compelling image that he sees here. So that is the text over here. Let's look at the interpretation of that the application and I'm going to share with you some life lessons from this text. So verse 11, God is speaking to him. Then he said to me, Son of Man, these bones are the whole house of Israel, the whole day, say, our bones are dried up and our hope is lost. We are indeed cut off. Therefore prophesy and say to them, Thus says the Lord God, Behold, I will open your graves and raise you from the graves, oh my people, and I will bring you into the land of Israel. And you shall know that I am the Lord, when I open your graves and raise you from the graves, all my people. Now I will put my Spirit within you, and you shall live, and I will place you in your own land, then you shall know that I am the Lord, I have spoken. And I will do it declares the Lord. You talk about the mighty power of God was seen in creation, but we see it in his commands to Azikiwe we see it in Scripture. So again, you look at this text over here and just by way of summary, what we see there is that these dead Dry Bones represent represent the people of Israel and And basically in exile, they felt hopeless, helpless and finished, they had no hope at all. Do you ever feel that way sometimes. So they're heavy, are desperate. The point of despair. In this interpretation, God says, basically, I'm going to open your graves of exile. That's what he's talking about. There's a spiritual resurrection, not a physical resurrection, I'll open your graves of exile and bring you back to your land. This is the message to this valley to these bones in his valley that it's all dried up, I'm going to resurrect you spiritually bring you back to your land. And of course, the point there is and then you'll know that I am the Lord when God would bring his people out of Babylonian captivity out of sheer horror and pain and suffering and affliction and all of that stuff, and they come back to the his land, then they would know that God did that, as we talked about this morning, that God is the one behind the power behind our prayers. And so they would know and understand that. And then in this context, also says that God's gonna put His Spirit in them and make them alive again. And again, verse 14, they will know that the Lord has spoken in his kept his promise to resurrect his people from spiritual death. So as I've read this, I said, Through the years, I kept saying, I'm going to preach on that, you know, I'm going to preach on that and I kept passing it off. Now I can't I don't know how to analyze a singer outlined, I say, no one has time to do that, it's time to look at the vision of the valley of Dr. Bones. It's one of the most compelling chapters in all the Bible. And it has messages of meaning and purpose for every single person here today. In especially for me, and so this is what the text is all about. So again, if we read through this, it's hard to even fathom Ezekiel walking through this valley of dry bones, he speaks to them, and they come together, and they Martin and God, so this is what's going on over here. But this is the people of Israel, bear in captivity, and they think there's no way out. There's no answers, there's no hope. The life is over. Do you ever feel that way? We all do probably at times. And so God says, I'm going to resurrect you spiritually, I'm going to bring you back to the promised land. And I'm going to give you hope, and I'm putting my very own spirit in you. And ultimately, you're going to know that I am the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, I'm the God of heaven and earth. And they would learn that. And so it's such a compelling text, I want to share that with you. And I want to put together some some personal observations so that I was going through this text in the last week or so. What is God saying to you and I?

What lessons are there that we can apply in our own lives? And so let's think about that. What lessons can we learn from the vision of the valley of dry bones? Well, it's probably lost, but I put together six that I want to share with you this morning. Number one, I want to suggest to each of us, that God sees you in your pain, in your anguish, in your guilt, in your shame in your suffering. He sees you. He knows about you, and He cares about you. That's the message over here. What were the people saying, our bones are dried up, our hope is gone. And we are dried up. There's they saw no, no way out of your situation. And so the reason for this compelling message in this chapter is for us to understand better if we're in the valley of dry bones, and our flesh is withering and our minds are failing, which is happening and the older we get. But when we're in those trials and difficulties like that, we have to understand that God sees you. He knows what you're going through. He knows what I'm faced with and dealing with. He knows the trials and temptations, the heartache, the sickness. We've been dealing with this COVID pandemic for the last year and a half or however long that's been God knows about all that he knows that the angles that we're dealing with. And so, again, to me, that's such a compelling message. That's one of the things that God's saying to us through this text over here is that God knows your pain. He sees your pain. He understands what you're going through, and that He loves you. And he cares about you. And he has a future for you as we prayed this morning that prayer would norm in eternal hope of being with God in heaven. And so this is a common mindset that we have. So this same complaint was given in Isaiah chapter 40. And we may have talked about this last week I've could remember was Kevin bainer. Given Stinson to clean was Kevin Stinson so what their people these guys People are in captivity. And this what they're saying, Why do you say oh Jacob is speak Oh, Israel, my way is hidden from the Lord. And my justice or my right is disregarded by God by God. They're saying, God can't see me. God doesn't see us in captivity. And he says, Have you not known Have you not heard? The Lord is the everlasting God, the Creator of the ends of the earth. He does not faint or grow weary. His understanding is unsearchable. He gives power to the faint into him, he has no might, he increases strength, even youth shell faint and be weary, and young men shall fall exhausted. But those who wait for the Lord shall renew their strength, They shall mount up with wings like eagles, They shall run and not be weary, they shall walk and not faint. God sees your heartache, God sees your pain, God sees your loneliness. He knows about that, in your life. And in my life, he knows what's going on. And he's able to bring us through those trials. And so one of the most common misunderstandings that we have as Christians is, God doesn't see me he doesn't know the financial bills that are kind of climbing up over here with a sickness I'm dealing with with a loved one. But he he does know all that. So I think we need to see, first of all, that God sees us in the worst of times possible. And he cares about us. Secondly, I want to suggest from this text, that God provides hope, when it doesn't seem humanly possible, who would ever have thought that these dead, dry, brittle bones could ever possibly come to life? Nobody, but God did. And so this is the message that he's bringing to us is that God is able to provide hope for us, even when humanly speaking, it does not seem possible that saints takes faith to trust God when you don't know the future. But God does know the future. So God give this that's what this passage is telling us. This chapter is telling us God provides hope. For us. Even when you can't see the light at the end of the tunnel. Maybe you can't even see the tunnel. But there is hope, at the end of the tunnel. And our job is to trust him. I trust God to bring us through through all that. And again, I think of this passage in Romans chapter four, as we think about Abraham and Sarah and God's promise to bring them a child, which would be

Isaac. And so look at this text over here. I says that is why it depends on Python with the promise of the offspring in order that the promise may rest on Grace, and be guaranteed to all his offspring, and not only to the adherence of the law, but also to the one who shares the faith of Abraham who is the father of assault, as it is written, I have made you the father of many nations in the presence of the God in whom he believed, who gives life to the dead. God gives life to the dead. And then as he brings back the dead, who are in the grave, who have died, and brings them back to life. And he calls into existence, the things that do not exist. So we serve a powerful God who's able to give us hope, in the midst of great difficulties that we may be facing. And I like the way the New Living train translation puts this. I said, God who brings the dead back to life, and who creates new things out of nothing sounds like the account in Genesis chapter one. God spoke the world into existence. By the power of His Word, His Word, He created the life out of nothing. The only one who can do that is God. And so because God is all powerful, he can bring give us hope, and situations that seem to be very difficult. So again, the question that we ask ourselves, hopefully this situation, but these do you feel hopeless, because there's something going on that you just don't see any way out of the challenge, the trial, the temptation, the burden, the sickness to fear. God is able to bring us through the trials, and God provides hope for the hopeless. A third lesson that I think we can we need to see from this text, and he zekiel Chapter 37. And this is pretty clear. God has infinite power to bring us out of utter ruin and despair. Think again, that valley of dry bones, they're just their drive. They're brutal is their life. This is no power, there's no hope. But what the text teaches us that God has unlimited power to help us in times of crisis or difficulty wherever we might be facing. And I think that's one of the messages here in this chapter in throughout scripture, that God has this endless infinite power, to help you with your trials to help me with my temptations to tell to help me with my burdens, my fears, my failures, the same is true for you as well. His strength to help us is limitless. The only problem is, you don't believe that. And I don't believe that, right? It's like, what do you mean, it's limited is limitless. If God can raise dead bones and to living human beings, he can help me with my problems. He can help you with your trials, any difficulties. That's the message that he's saying to us. I love that song that Marshall did for us this morning, I sing the mighty power of God. Everywhere we look, we see God's power in creation. And we also see in his word Scripture gives us this message that God has this infinite power. And Paul's prayer for the Ephesians. In Ephesians, chapter one, he said, having the eyes of your hearts enlightened, that you may know what is the hope to which he has called you, or to the riches of His glorious inheritance in the saints. What is the immeasurable greatness of His power toward us

who believe So Paul, one of the Christians at Ephesus, and they are facing their trials, their persecution, their temptation, he wants them to know that the greatness of God's power is immeasurable for them, and for you and for me. So according to the worth of his great mind, did he work when he raised Christ from the dead, and seated him in his right hand in heavenly places, far above all rule and authority and power and dominion, and above every name that is named not only in this age, but also in the age to come? So what Paul wants these Christians to know, is his immeasurably great power of God. And how does he demonstrate that power, when he raised Jesus from the dead, nobody can raise people from the dead, God does that he did that to Jesus, He will do that to you and me once were in the grave. And and so that's, again, conveying this message that God has so much power, as we saying, toward us who believe to help us with our difficulties with our unbelief, sometimes, another passage Ephesians chapter three, this is one of my favorite, verses 2021, The New King James Version Now to Him who is able to do exceedingly, abundantly, above all that we ask or think, according to the power that works in us, to Him be glory in the church by Christ Jesus to all generations, forever and ever. Amen. How much power does God have can't even describe it can't even measure it. And that power is ultimately available for you. And for me in one of the ways that we access that is through prayer, which we've been talking about this quarter. So I hope and the third lesson that we clearly learned from this text, is that God has infinite power to bring us out of utter ruin and despair. Number four, I want to suggest that God brings back people from the dead, both literally and spiritually, in this context, he's talking about a spiritual resurrection, bringing the people out of the graves of their captivity and bring them back to their their homeland. But we're gonna make this application both ways, because I think it's very powerful. But that's the very thing that he's saying here that God has the power to resurrect people who are spiritually dead. I trust that no one here this morning is spiritually dead. Sometimes we we falter in our faith, we get caught up in SAM, we talked about that we pray about that a lot. But even if you're spiritually dead, God can resurrect your life, and it will make a complete commitment to do His will. So that's one of the messages from Zeke and chapters 37. God brings us back from the dead if we find ourselves in spiritual death or indifference. We have to be careful not to go so far that we get ourselves discouraged in trying to come back and God brings people back from the dead. Again, a pastor that we think about, who's Ephesians chapter two, Paul writes to these Christians in Ephesus, they were Gentiles I believe. He said, As for you, you were dead, in your transgressions and your sins. I was dead in my transgressions in my sins before I obeyed the gospel. 43 years ago, we were dead in our transgressions and our sins, says in which you used to live when you follow the ways of the world, in the rule of the kingdom, the air, the spirit, who is now at work and those who are disobedient. All of us live among them at one time, gratifying the cravings of our flesh, and following his desires and thoughts like the We were by nature deserving wrath, but because of the great love of for us God who is Richard mercy made us alive with Christ, even when we were dead in our transgressions. That's just the point. God raised his dead people, he raised his people who are spiritually dead. That's what we're talking about over here. And that's what equalise communicating to us. And one of the lessons he's teaching us is that God brings us back even from spiritual death, these dead bones couldn't move. They couldn't do anything. They couldn't open up their Bible and read, they were totally dependent on dependent upon God's mercy and power and grace. And so it's a reminder that that God is able to bring us back from spiritual death. Also want while we're talking about that.

God also brings people racist people from the dead physically, John, chapter five, verses 28 and 29. Judgment Day is coming. I remind myself that on a regular basis, I remind friends, sometimes customers, Judgment Day is coming, Johnson Do not marvel at this for an hour is coming when all who are in the tombs will hear His voice, and come out those who have done good to the resurrection of life. And those who have done evil to the resurrection of judgment. One of the most compelling thoughts for me to think about is that every dead body, every person who has ever lived and died, in their buried in the heart of the earth, or the depths of the deepest part of the sea, is going to rise from those graves and face to God in judgment. God brings people back from the dead, both literally and spiritually. The fifth point I want to share with us this morning, is, I think, a lesson first text to say that God places His Spirit in us making us alive. So when is he keyless speaking to these dead bones, these brittle Dry Bones, he breathes on them, and God's Spirit enters them, and they come back to life. And it's reminded that our strength comes from God. And we need to remind ourselves that we talked about that this morning. Again, in our class, we have to understand that we live by God's power, our strength comes from God. Like what John said in First John chapter four says you are from God, little children, and have overcome them, because greater is He who is in you, than he who is in the world. The problem is, I put on my, my trust my strength in myself, and I fail. But John says that greater is He who is in you, that's God, that He whose God is greater than Satan, he can't overpower from Satan is our adversary. And he cannot overpower us, God gives us strength to do that he places the Spirit in us are probably a lot of the verses that we could look at. Again, going back to Ephesians, Paul's prayer for these Christians at Ephesus, for this reason, I bow my knees before the Father from whom every family in heaven, and on earth is named that according to the riches of his glory, he may grant you to be strengthened with power through his Spirit, through His Spirit and your inner being, so that Christ may dwell in your heart through faith as Jesus dwells in me. And in you. Yes, he does, on the basis of our faith, so that Christ may dwell in your hearts through faith, that you being rooted and grounded in love, may have strength to comprehend with all the saints, what is the breadth, and length and height and depth, and to know the love of Christ that surpasses knowledge in West the result of seeking God's kingdom first and trusting Him and in being strengthened in our inner being and having Christ dwell on our hearts, the faith, he said that she may be filled up, or filled with all the fullness of God, I need to be more full of God, and less full of myself. And that's the challenge, I tend to be so focused on myself, not as focused on God. But this is the really alive person, the person who's really alive the person who's hard heart becomes the dwelling place of Jesus Christ, and again, on the basis of faith, and on the basis of his revealed Word. So number 5/5. Lesson I think is valuable for us. That God places His Spirit in us it causing us to come alive in number six. The last point I want to make is to understand that God keeps His promises and he's able to deliver us from great trials. So as you look at this text that we've been focusing on this morning, in verse 14, he said, I'll put my spirit within you and you will come to life, and I will place you on your own land, then you will know that I the LORD have spoken and have done it declares the LORD God keeps His promises. God fulfills His purposes.

I sometimes break my promises, you might break promises. God doesn't break his promises, and he fulfills His purposes. And again, that's a message that we see throughout this chapter, it throughout the Scriptures, God keeps His promises, I made reference to Abraham and Sarah. And again, God gives him the promise that that Sarah is going to give birth to Isaac, the child who promised to whom the Messiah would come. And, and she's 65 years old, anybody who's 65 years old, have a baby, we get a list of people expecting children. We talked about that a lot here, Broadmoor. Anybody at 65 have a baby, or 75 or 85. No. And why does God not bring that promise to fulfillment he waits till she's 90 years old, Abraham's 100 No way possible for a human being to have a baby, except when God says I'm going to give you a child, he gives a child and Sarah, at 90 years old, gives birth to Isaac child a promise. So the point here is, the text isn't verse 21. But Abraham, he didn't waver a concern of his promise. But he was fully convinced a God was able to do what He promises. And so one of the lessons we have to learn, brethren, and friends is that God keeps His word. He promises heaven to those who obey Him. He does promise eternal punishment to those who to harden their hearts against him. But God keeps His word. And that gives us great assurance and great comfort. And understand that as we sing so often, he's able to deliver us from the great trials and the difficulties that were we faced in our lives. So I appreciate your consideration of this lesson if you patient so that I've tried to put this thing together in a meaningful way. But these are some, some some practical lessons. That really, I learned as I went through this, again, from the vision of the valley of dry bones, it's there for a reason. And sometimes you might read it, and it seems almost surreal. But God put that in there for your benefit this morning. And for my benefit this morning. So God sees us and knows about our pain, our guilt and our shame he cares about us. Secondly, we said God provides hope, even when it doesn't seem humanly possible, to have hope. Number three, God has infinite power, to bring us out of utter ruin. That takes faith to believe that when your life is in shambles, that somehow God's gonna bring you through that, but he has that power. And before we said that God raised his people from the dead spiritually, and physically. Number five, God places His Spirit in us causing us to live. And number six, God fulfills His promises. And he's able to deliver us from great adversity, trial temptation and suffering. And you put whatever other word at the end of that list that you want to God is able to deliver us from the great trials that we face. So again, easy kill chapter 37, compelling chapter scriptures there is therefore a benefit. As we wrap up the lesson this morning and extend the invitation song The question that we would ask is, do you need to be better be brought back from death? Do you need is there someone here who needs to be back brought back from spiritual death? Maybe your hearts grown cold and maybe calloused towards God? Trust that's not the case. Do you need to be reborn you can certainly do so and be restored to God through obedience, the Gospel repentance and faith in baptism, or it may be and the most, most of the time I think for all of us who need the prayers of his congregation, we've been talking about that this quarter. We all need prayer. For strength to face our trials and difficulties we need to pray with one another and for one another. So somebody this morning that needs to respond to this invitation. We invite you to come while we stand and sing this song.


Transcribed by https://otter.ai