It's good to see everyone out tonight, if you want to open up your Bibles to Nehemiah chapter six. That's where we're gonna study from this evening, Nehemiah chapter six. One of the challenges of going through school and getting an education is the idea of maintaining focus. I'm sure you've had the experience where you've been listening to a teacher or someone who is trying to say something about a new topic, and all of a sudden, your mind starts to drift, you're thinking about something else. Or if you are needing to complete an assignment, or you're working on a project that's been given to you, I can remember coming home from school and I'd have something due the next day. And I think to myself, well, let me just get a snack before I get started on that and get something to eat. And then I'd say I'm going to watch a little show next, and I'd sit down on the couch, and then the door would ring and a friend would say come outside. And so I'd go with them. And all of a sudden the night has gone by, and the nothing has gotten done on the work. And mom would chide me she'd say you are getting too distracted, you are not staying focused on on what you need to. As Jesus was coming to the end of His earthly ministry. It says in Luke chapter nine in verse 51, that he set his face to Jerusalem, even though he knew what was coming. What was waiting for him. He wasn't deterred. He didn't get sidetracked, he understood that his ultimate goal and purpose was to go to the cross, he was focused. And that's such an important aspect in our Christian walk. And it was important for Nehemiah during his day when he was helping the people rebuild the wall. So I'd like for us to think about this idea of focusing on the goal as we look at Nehemiah chapter six, Read with me, Nehemiah chapter six, beginning in verse one. It says, Now it happened when Sanballat Tobiah Jessem, the Arab and the rest of our enemies heard that I had rebuilt the wall, that there were no breaks left in it. Although at the time I had not hung the doors and the gates that Sanballat and Jessem said to me, saying, Come let us meet together among the villages in the plane of Oh, no. But they thought to do me harm. So I sent messengers to them saying, I am doing a great work so that I cannot come down. Why should the work cease while I leave it and go down to you. But they sent me this message four times, and I answered them in the same manner. This, of course, is not the first time that Nehemiah has faced some type of resistance or pushback to this building project. Back in chapter four, there were a number of taunts and threats that were being made against the people, by their neighbors, those who are living in the land around them. They're trying to get them to stop their efforts. But here in chapter six, it seems to be a more targeted approach. They are going after the man at the helm, so to speak, they're trying to take down the leader and if they can get Nehemiah to get off of his project, then maybe the whole operation will come to a halt. In verse one. It says that Sanballat Tobiah Jessem. These men hear that the wall had been built up. It's nearly completed. So they come up with a plan they send word to Nehemiah, and they say we want you to come out and meet with us in the plane of Ohno. Ohno was about 27 miles away from Jerusalem, it's to the northwest. And during the Persian rain, this was in an area that was not really ruled by anyone. It was the disputed territory, but it sat between the land of Ashdod and the land of Sumeria. So then this is right by the place where these men these three men where they come from the area that they live in, or that they have charge over. And they want Nehemiah to make this very dangerous journey up to their neck of the woods to have a little conversation with them. This reminds me of what happened to Paul in Acts chapter 23. The Jews had asked Paul, if he would come before the Sanhedrin, so that they could ask him some questions. We just want to get some more information for him. So they make this request. Well, turns out there were 40 men over 40 men who had given an oath, that they would neither eat nor drink until they had taken Paul's life. And when the Roman commander finds out about this, he takes a whole garrison of troops to protect Paul and send him down to assess Ria. But in the amyas case, they are trying to ask him, they want him to come up to meet them. In verse four, it says that they sent this request four times your kids ever do this. They just keep asking you over and over, we go to the store, Dad, can I have this, can we get this can we get this and they're just trying to wear you down until you change your mind. And so they until Nehemiah will consent and go with them, to meet them as requested. But Nehemiah is a great leader, because he is able to stay focused, he's able to keep his eyes on his goal. Notice what verse three says, in verse three, he says, so I sent messengers to them saying, I am doing a great work, so that I cannot come down. Nehemiah stayed focused on the goal, by refusing to leave a great work. Nehemiah tells them, I cannot leave, I need to stay where I am, because I am engaged in this great work. In other words, he was doing something in Jerusalem, that was far more important, and far more vital than going down to meet with these men. Now, of course, he knew what they were planning what they were trying to do. But also, he acknowledges that his priority is on this project, his energy, his attention is centered on rebuilding the wall, and not just rebuilding the wall, but rebuilding the lives of God's people. And Nehemiah wasn't about to allow any distraction or resistance to take away from that he was fully committed to his work. In Exodus chapter 34. We're talking about how Moses went up on the mountain to receive the the covenant from the Lord the 10 commandments. And you remember that detail in Exodus chapter 34, and verse 28. It says that Moses went up there for 40 days, and nights he neither ate nor drink, he was so concentrated on the task, that it demanded his complete attention, he was focused on what he was about to receive from the Lord. And Acts chapter six, there was a dispute among the early Christians about the distributions that were going out and some of the Greek speaking widows were receiving their portion. And they brought this matter before the apostles and the apostles recognize that this was a problem that this needed to be addressed. But in Acts chapter six, and verse two, they say that this is not something that we're going to resolve, or that we are going to oversee. And the reason was, because it wasn't right for them to stop preaching the word of God, to take care of this matter. In other words, they had a greater job to do, there was something more important, more vital, that required their focus, you know, saying this, constantly trying to distract us, to get us to take our eyes off of the main thing, the thing that is primary that is most important in our lives. And certainly he does that with things like temptation and sin. He puts worldly desires in front of us, but it also comes in the form of misplaced priorities, when we may be emphasizing something that is not inherently wrong, but it's not the most important thing. And so I like for us just think about what great work has God put before you? What essential task has he charged you with? I heard a story recently about a father who always made a point to be home by 6pm. And he would leave his office if there was work that still needed to be done. He get out because he wanted to be home with his family. There's one night that he got caught up on a project and he wasn't going to get home till eight and he called his wife to let her know And by the time he got back to the house, the dinner was already finished. And he said to his wife, I'll go ahead and give the kids a bath, and I'll read them a story and get them ready for bed. And as he was tucking one of his kids in his little girl looked up at him, and she said, Daddy, can you start coming home late every night. And he thought he was doing the right thing by by getting home at six o'clock. But when he was there, he wasn't present. He wasn't involved. Often our attention can be diverted towards other things. We're looking at our phone, we're working on the house, we're watching TV, we're finishing some project. Do we appreciate that raising kids is a great work. Jesus has given all of us a great work, whether we have little ones in our home, or there's just influences or relationships that are in our in our life, He wants us to, to shine our lights to take the message of His love and His grace to those who are in darkness to be an influence on those around us, our families, our friends, those that we work with, maybe we need to be more like Nehemiah, where when we get asked or we try to get pulled into something we say I can't do that. I can't take that on right now. Because I am focused, I am engaged in this great work. Also look at Nehemiah chapter six. And verse five. It says then Sanballat sent his servant to me as before the fifth time with an open letter in his hand. And it was written it is reported among the nations and Jessem says that you and the Jews plan to rebel. Therefore, according to these rumors, you are rebuilding the wall, that you may be their king. They come to meet Nehemiah a fifth time. And they make this chart they say that the reason you're rebuilding the wall is because you want to be a king. Your motive or your goal is to rebel against the the ruler. And ultimately you're setting up these false prophets and they're proclaiming you as the king. You're you're in it because you want control. You want power and proceed for yourself. Well notice what Nehemiah says in verse eight. He says, then I sent to him saying no such things, as you say, are being done, but you invent them in your own heart. Nehemiah was able to maintain focus on his goal, because verse eight he put rumors to rest. He gives them the straight truth on this. He says, You are inventing these things, you're making them up in your mind. They thought verse nine that this was going to frighten the people that they're now all of a sudden going to be discouraged. And they're going to stop the work. But it had the opposite effect. Nehemiah prays at the end of verse nine, he says, Oh God, strengthen us, give us strengthen my hands and he asked the Lord for help in overcoming these obstacles. But when working towards a common goal, it's so important to communicate to speak the truth and not give weight or, or credence to hearsay and to gossip. How quickly a group, a team a church can get sidetracked and derailed when people start to listen to whispers Did you hear what this person said? Or did you hear what they did? Or let me tell you about what I know. We need to be careful that we're not sharing or receiving information that's hurtful, that can tear others down in this case, it wasn't true what they were saying about Nehemiah. But even if it is true, even if we know something that actually did happen, we need to ask the question, Is this helpful? Is this going to provide some type of benefit to the people I'm telling or to the one that I'm talking about in Second Timothy chapter two? In verse 23, it says, Have nothing to do with foolish, ignorant controversies. You know that they breed quarrels. Paul tells Timothy that he needs to just stay back to not get involved in controversies and things that are breeding corals. And Nehemiah doesn't allow these men to propagate lies he quickly and decisively shuts it down. The Lord wants us to be discerning people to test the spirits. First John four and verse one, to make sure that the things that we hear and believe are true that they are from God and First Kings chapter 21. Ahab comes upon a vineyard that he likes and he wants to buy. And he goes and approaches the owner name off, and he asks him if he'll sell it to him, and they have a name off tells him No, it's been in his family for a long time, and he's not going to give it to someone else. And after receiving this, Ahab is furious, he's angry and depressed, and he goes home back to his house, and he's pouting about it. And when his wife Jezebel sees this, she comes up with this plan, and she devises a scheme to have all of the town come together. And they find a couple of worthless men that come in and bring charges against nabe off. And when the people of the city hear it, they take him out, and they stone him to death. Not everything that people say, is true. And when we hear a charge or an accusation or a story about someone else, we need to use judgment and discernment that goes with listening to people teach or preach God's word. We shouldn't just accept it as true. We need to test it. And Acts chapter 17, verse 11, we're told about the Bereans and how when they heard Paul and Silas they went and searched the scriptures diligently to see if those things were so. So Nehemiah puts these rumors to rest. Well, they asked him to come out to the plane of Oh, no. And that didn't work. So they try to spread some rumors about him and he shuts those down. But now, look what they do in verse 10. It says, afterward, I came to the house of Shemaiah, the son of Delilah, the son of Metha, Bell, who was a secret informer and he said, Let us meet together in the house of God within the temple, and let us close the doors of the temple, for they are coming to kill you. Indeed at night, they will come to kill you. This man Shemaiah tries to warn Nehemiah about a plot against his life. He says that they are trying to kill you there is this an assassination that's about to happen. And his suggestion for refuge on that is to go into the temple use the temple as a sanctuary, a place that will keep you safe. But notice, Nehemiah is response in verse 11. It says, and I said, should such a man as I flee, and who is there such as I who would go into the temple to save his life. I will not go in Nehemiah stay focused on his goal, because he was able to show courage in the face of danger. In verse 11, he asked this question, he says, Should a man like me flee? Should I go and run away? Nehemiah is the governor. He is the leader of the province, he is responsible for the lives and the welfare of these people. And if there is a problem, if there's a threat to the city, how can he leave? How can he go somewhere else he feels an obligation and a sense of duty to continue to help and to serve. Growing up, I was always fascinated by the story of the Titanic. And there's a lot of interesting details when you read through the account. It's amazing. There's this massive ship one of the largest in the world that was considered to be unsinkable. But as it may as it made its maiden voyage across the Atlantic, and it struck the iceberg. The the captain Edward Smith, had over 40 years of experience with seafaring vessels. He was one of the most well respected captains that worked for the White Star Line. But when the ship started to go down, he made the decision to stay aboard. And as a kid, I just couldn't believe that I was thinking well, he is the captain. I mean, can he give the order to say the last seat on the final lifeboat is mine Captain's orders. You know, couldn't he secure? place for himself. But instead he chose to stay behind. Having courage in the face of great danger means being unselfish. It means putting other people ahead of yourself. And when we turn and run from responsibilities has Nehemiah said that they wanted him to do just to flee to go away? We're not focusing on others, we're instead looking at ourselves, what do I want? What do I, how does this make me feel? But instead Nehemiah was concerned with what's going to happen to God's people? What's going to happen to the city? How will this affect the great work that we are engaged in? Where do we get the courage to stand up and do the right thing? How can we have that conviction to stay steadfast in the midst of difficulty in First Chronicles, Chapter 28, and verse one are in Second Chronicles, Chapter 28, in verse 20, it says, Then David said to Solomon, his son, be strong and courageous and do it. Do not be afraid, and do not be dismayed for the Lord God, even my God is with you. He will not leave you or forsake you until all the work for the service of the house of the Lord is finished. Why should Solomon not be afraid of this incredible project that's being set before him? David says, because God is with you. The Lord is going to be with you every step of the way, until this is gone to completion until the work is done, the Lord will stand by us. When Jesus was in the garden, he asked some of his disciples to go with him as he went to pray. And when he went back to check on them, he found them sleeping the night was into the it was long into the night, and they were tired, and their eyes were heavy. So he went a little further and he prayed to the Father that the cup that he was about to drink would pass from him. And in Luke chapter 22, and verse 43, it tells us that in that moment, an angel from heaven appeared to Him. I like to think that the angel had already been there, and was there. But Jesus was just able to now see that God's Messenger was there. Satan wants us to think that we are alone, that no one understands that we are dealing with this burden all by ourselves. But the Lord will stand by us. He'll strengthen us so that we can have courage even in the midst of great danger. Finally, Nehemiah was able to maintain his focus. Because we see that he had integrity, under pressure. Look at verse 13. It says, For this reason, he was hired, that I should be afraid and act that way and sin, so that they might have cause for an evil report, that they might reproach me. Shem Shemaiah ultimately wants Nehemiah to go into the temple to seek refuge so that he can accuse him of wrongdoing. They are trying to trap Nehemiah into committing sin. Nehemiah is not a priest, he's not a Levite. He has no right to enter into God's temple even if it would be a place that could protect him. Following this plan would cause him to be guilty. Integrity means doing the right thing. Regardless of the outcome of what's going on around you. Integrity means standing firm and continuing to follow God's way. Even if the outcome may be uncertain. I went to check on Hudson one afternoon he was up in his room. When I walked in there the floor the carpet by the door was soaking wet. It was water something and I asked him I said what are you doing here? Why is the floor wet? And he said it was it was one of the sissies the sisters. I said Huston The sisters are at school right now. If you're going to come up with an alibi, you've got to blame it on somebody that's actually at the house. Now he's a little child he's still learning but that is the way that so many people in our world think if they get into a jam, if they get cause just blame someone else, point the finger, just lie about it, make up a story. If it's something that's going to save you or get you from being in trouble, then the ends justifies the means. But God's people have different perspective. We're not just living for right here. And now, we're not just trying to succeed in this life. But we're focused on the life to come. And that means that we don't do things that go against God's word, in this case, going into a holy place and desecrating it, even if there is intense pressure to do it. So we look at the world around us. And you might make a lot of money by telling people things that aren't true. You might get a lot of followers by wearing the latest trends or dancing to the most trendy music. Or you might have more friends if you are more tolerant or accepting or more open with your views. But the question is, who are we trying to please? is our goal to be well liked and adored by the world? Or do we want to be found approved by our Father in heaven? At the end of Nehemiah chapter six, in verse 15, it says, so the wall was finished on the 25th day, in 52 days, 52 days, a wall that had been broken down for over 100 years, is now being rebuilt in just a short period of time. It is amazing what God's people can accomplish when they are focused on a goal and working together towards a common goal. If there is someone here tonight that needs to respond to the invitation, we're going to close with a song. And it's an opportunity to recommit your life to the Lord to reestablish your faith and your relationship with him. Or if you need to respond to the gospel call. Let us know how we can help come down to the front as we stand and sing


Transcribed by https://otter.ai