Mike Roy  00:03
It's always such a pleasure and privilege for us to come and worship our great God in heaven to give him all the praise that he deserves to trust, his power to trust His grace for the struggles in our lives, it's good to see some new some faces back today that have been out for a little while. And we are making our way through this pandemic. And we're making our way through this construction project. And maybe by the time this is finished, we'll have much more of a sense of normalcy. But I remind each of us that God is really bigger than our struggles, our trials are difficulties. And so it's a great opportunity to come to worship our God in heaven, and to remember all of what he has done for us, and in particular, to remember His grace and His mercy in his love. Now, there are some phrases in Scripture and some actual scriptures that almost every Christian knows almost by heart, you might not be able to recall the actual location in your Bible, but there are some phrases that are so well known, everybody knows. And one of them is this phrase, from my thoughts, and not your thoughts. Neither are My ways your ways declares the Lord, For as the heavens are higher than the earth. so are my ways higher than your ways and my thoughts than your thoughts? You know, we often use this phrase of powerful phrase, and maybe advising our denominational friends, when they think that maybe a piano sounds really good to them. What does it sound like to God? This is? Or is this a logical verse to go to when we say God's thoughts are not our thoughts, His ways are not our ways. And there's lots of ways that we can use that verse to maybe refute some denominational error. But I want to look at this context this morning, and suggest that there's another message in here that I think we've overlooked, and I have overlooked for a long time. And the emphasis in this passage has to do with God's compassionate nature, and his abundant desire to his desire to abundantly pardon our sins. And so with that in mind, I want you to think about this phrase, again, it's in our minds, we know it, you know it, I know it from my thoughts and your thoughts, declares the Lord, neither your ways, my ways. But the emphasis in this context I want to suggest to you is that is one of God's abundant mercy and compassion. So take a different look at this this morning, if you would with me. And again, there's powerful lessons, we learned from the truth that God's thoughts are not our thoughts. So we better be careful not to presume about how to worship him, or to substitute a hamburger and coke for the Lord's Supper, which we would certainly never consider. So there's lots of lessons there. But there's a message here in Isaiah chapter 55. In all my years of serving God and preaching, I kind of have overlooked this may be you have as well, and see, if you don't notice this message that God is saying to his people through Isaiah, that he is a God who have tender compassion and mercy, and he abundantly forgives his people. So as we look at this context, this morning, Isaiah chapter 55, we'll look at the chapter itself briefly, to get the full context, we use that phrase a lot. To understand the context of this chapter, or this statement, we need to look at the chapter. So we're going to be looking at that clip this morning. I've got five points I want to share with you from Isaiah chapter 55. And then we'll kind of bring, bring it to a center of central focus in verses eight and nine, the verses that are so familiar to almost all of us. Well, the first point I want to make from Isaiah, tip 255, is in the first couple of verses. And that's an invitation that God gives us to be well fed and deeply satisfied. So in this context, where Isaiah says, from my thoughts are not your thoughts, this is God speaking, My ways are not your ways. The first thing that we see in Isaiah chapter 55, is this invitation from God, to be well fed and to be deeply satisfied. So he says, whoa, everyone who thirst come to the waters, and you who have no money come by and eat? Yes, come and buy wine and milk without money without price. Why do you spend money for what is not bread and your wages for what does not satisfied listen carefully to me in eat what is good and let your soul delight itself in abundance. God wants to satisfy us by His character by His promises by his holiness by our worshiping Him by our, our serving Him. But you'll look at this phrase over here and I deliberately chose the New King James Version to put up on the screen. So often, when we want to get somebody's attention, I say Yo, Kevin. Yo, Isaac, listen to me, I got a message for you. God says, whoa, hey, what are you saying is, listen to me, this is an urgent message, whoa, everyone who hears my vert my voice, I want to satisfy you in a way that I can own that only God can do this. So that's what he's saying he there's a phrase that we just don't use Whoa, unless it's Christmas time or something like that, followed by a couple more phrases like that. But God wants to get our attention. Isaiah wants to get our attention. This is an urgent message from God. First of all, isn't it amazing when it says how everyone who thirst come to come to the waters, and you who have no money come by and eat. It's amazing to me that a holy God condescends to his sinful, rebellious people. Why this was God pleading with his people to come back to Him and serve Him and worship him. That's just the point of the chapter. He's a compassionate God. He's a merciful God, he's a forgiving God. He doesn't want his people to waste away and the consequences of their sins. They've been in captivity, they've been going through that for the Rebellion, their sin and all that type of thing. And God wants to restore his people. So again, this is a reflection of God's compassion and mercy. I want you to notice in this text, it says, whoa, everyone that the invitation here is for everyone who is willing to come to God, God wants to restore all people to Himself, those who are outside the body of Christ, and those may be Christians who have wandered away from the truth and from God's word. But the invitation is to everyone. What's the requirement according to these verses? Well, the requirement is we must hunger and thirst after righteousness. That's what Jesus said in Matthew chapter five, verse six. And that's what this is saying over here, everyone who is thirsty, thirsty, not for water, but thirsty for God, everyone who is hungry, hungry for holiness, hunger for hungry for deeper satisfaction, anyone who wants to serve God, and to be forgiven of their sins, even after spending time in captivity, they can come back, they can come and do that. So look at this, these first few verses over here in God's given an invitation to his people who were been, had been punished because of their sinfulness. And he wants to offer them deep satisfaction isn't. That's a paradox, though. How do you buy without money? It says over here, come by and eat Yes, come by wine and milk without money without price. How do you make these purchases without money? Well, the way that we do that is by listening to God's Word by hungering after righteousness by thirsting after his will, by listening to his word by accepting his invitation, by turning from our sins. That's how we buy these things. And so he uses these phrases over here. In you who have no money, come by and eat, come buy wine and milk. So these things give greater satisfaction than simply water. I think, again, it's the idea that God wants us to be satisfied. And, and so it's a reminder of everything in this chapter is driven by God's compassion, and his love. And then he said in verse two, why do you spend money for what is not bread and your weight and your wages for what is not satisfied? He said, Listen to me, you you feed on my word, you listen to my instructions, and I will satisfy you totally, and completely. I think verse two reminds us of the futility, as that song sometimes says, Looking for love and all the wrong places. We look for love and purpose and meaning and fulfillment in all the wrong places in worldliness and wine and whiskey and, and promiscuous relationships, that's not going to bring satisfaction that brings pain and grief and anguish and remorse and sorrow. And so, God wants to satisfy us and a point that we make here, if we will feed on God's word, you will be deeply satisfied. There's nothing so satisfying is what God has given to us in his his Word, and the promises that he's given to us. So this first point I want you to look at with me. Secondly, as we continue to look at this text, there's an invitation to be well led ultimately by Jesus Christ. So again, I'm just trying to get the bigger context of Isaiah chapter 55. And so on verses three through five, again, tells these people coming back from captivity and climb your ear and come to me, listen, that you may live and I'll make an everlasting covenant with you. According to the faithful mercy shown to David, Behold, I have made him a witness to the peoples, a leader and Commander for the peoples behold, you will call a nation you do not know and a nation which does not know you will run to you because of the law. Your God the Holy One of Israel, for he has glorified You. Lots of questions we can ask about this as God's speaking about King David, is this a reference to Jesus Christ, I believe it is. And it may be a dual application here. But the same message is found in these verses, from the previous verses, incline your ear, come to me, listen to me so that you will live. Don't have to listen to the talk, show people around the world that give worldly advice. Listen to God, listen to Jesus Christ. Listen to his king, listen to King David. David was a man far from perfectly, but he was a godly leader. He led the people of God to serve him to worship Him to rebuild the temple, all that type of thing. And so that's the message here that God has given an invitation to us, and first to his people, and ultimately, to be fulfilled in Jesus Christ, if we listen to him and kleinere ear and come back to him. So what's the benefit of listening to and obeying God's word we're brought into an everlasting covenant with him. And so that's the one of the things that's stressed over here, and I will make an everlasting, everlasting covenant with thee. So when we listen to God's word, when we turn from sin and come back to him, then he, he rewards us with this covenant, where He strengthens us through our trials and the difficulties that he faces. And again, the language over here says, according to the faithful mercy shown to David, I think what he's saying here is that God never gave up on David. In spite of all of David's failures, God never gave up on him, he never stopped showing David mercy. And God's not going to give up on you. He's not going to give up on me, in spite of all of my weaknesses, all of my fears, all my failures, all my struggles, all of your struggles. That's the point according to the faithful mercy shown to David, God did not give up on David. And David didn't give up on itself. He kept on going. And so God is for us, listen, this morning, God is not going to give up on you, in spite of your sin, in spite of your fear, in spite of your doubt, or disbelieves. We all have those right. And so we want the conditions we must continue to serve him continue to seek first his kingdom and his righteousness. And then you know, verses four and five, says, Behold, I've made him a witness to the peoples and a leader and commanded the peoples behold, you will call a nation you do not know and the nation which does not know you will run to you, because the Lord your God, the Holy One of Israel, He is glorified, you could be talking about David and his leadership for the nation of Israel. But ultimately, I think he's talking about Jesus, who was the true leader, the true King of kings, and he's gonna call people from every nation, tongue and tribe and background to be part of His kingdom. And so that's the, I think, the invitation that God is giving to us, ultimately, through Jesus Christ. The third point I want us to see from this text this morning, get my clicker to work, actually, maybe I should be using this one. Much better. Use this when you're teaching or something. So it's an invitation to turn from sin and to seek the Lord and His forgiveness. So again, we're looking at the context over here. And in this passage, in fact, I meant to forget to mention at the beginning, and Homer Haley's commentary on Isaiah, titles, chapter 55, the great invitation. And where's the phrase, there is the great invitation, and free mercy for all. So that's really the theme of the chapter is God's great invitation. He's offering this with this first verses free mercy free grace, anyone who's willing to turn to Him. So the third point here is that it's an invitation to turn from sin, and to seek the Lord in His forgiveness. And so in verse six, he says, Seek the Lord while He may be found, call upon Him while He is near. Let the wicked abandon his way, and the unrighteous person his thoughts and let him return to the Lord. So it and he says he will have compassion on him and to our God, for He will abundantly pardon. So notice a couple of things there. So when God's people coming back from captivity, turned from their sins, in resolve to do what is right, he's going to have compassion on his people. And look at the phrase there, for he will abundantly pardon. Wait a minute, think about where these people have been in all the sin that they've been involved in. But as a couple lessons, I think we need to realize here, when God tells us Isaiah tells us to seek the Lord, while he may be found is a reality that we only have a limited time and opportunity The to seek the Lord. And it's not that he's hiding. But we are often hiding from from him because of sin because of unbelief or disbelief. But the message is we come to him while he is here, while the prophets preaching the message, while you hear God's word proclaimed is your opportunity in my opportunity to turn to God and to serve Him. And and so he says, he let the wicked person forsake his way, and also forsake his thoughts. It's not enough to just avoid sin of lying and cheating and adultery and lust and anger and pride, it's also have to avoid the first thoughts in my mind. And that's the greatest challenge, I think that we face and I face keeping these evil thoughts out of my mind, I can do an okay job of not being involved in sin. But the simple boss can swirl through my mind, and I have to keep those out. And so them So the message here is when we turn to God and seek Him, He comes running to us we remember the prodigal son, when he came back home, his father saw him from a great distance and felt compassion for him and ran and embraced him and kissed him. God is wanting to forgive his people, he's wanting to show compassion. And I want you to think with me before we get on to this next verse. So the phrase here I want you to key in this morning, is that he will abundantly pardon. God is going to abundantly pardon his people. So what's the connection with verse eight, when he goes on to say, for my thoughts are not your thoughts? And nor are your ways my ways declares the Lord? Well, I think what he's saying here is that God is much more merciful and forgiving than we are. And he is much more compassionate and forgiving than we think he should be. We often have the Jonah complex just came through norms class, I'm Jonah. And unfortunately, many times, I'm like, Jonah, I don't think these people deserve forgiveness, maybe a certain class of people or type of sin, we just don't think they deserve forgiveness. And I look at these other people, I just can't imagine God forgiving them. Somehow, assuming that God's going to forgive me of my sins, my sins are less offensive to God than they are. And I think that's what he's saying over here. That we're like, like Jonah, we think that the Assyrians were so bad, that there's no way that God should should forgive these people because of their sinfulness. And very often, many of God's people have the same mindset. And we sometimes say they would say that people of Israel coming out of captivity, how can God forgive me? How can God forgive me? I've been so bad of them things so bad for so long. And think about their history. Israel had a long history of idolatry, adultery, they were involved in pagan worship, they even sacrificed their children on the pagan altars. And God says, Come Back to Me, for I will abundantly pardon. That's what he says, from my thoughts. I'm not your thoughts. He is so much more gracious and merciful and forgiving than I am. And then you are often I think that's what he's saying over here. Because the thoughts that we have like John, how can God possibly forgive the Assyrians? And the people of Israel saying, Lord, we've been in captivity for 70 years? And because of our sin, how can God possibly forgive us and Gaza that's on my mind that that balls in my court, not in your court. And so that's, that's, I think, is a connection over here. God invites us to turn from sin and seek the Lord and His forgiveness, because he's going to abundantly pardon us, which leads to the fourth point that I want to mention this this morning. And this focus is on the glorious and infinite difference between God and man. So I put this up on the screen. So here's the verse that we all have said for years and years and have it pretty well memorized from my thoughts are not your thoughts. neither are your ways my ways, declares the Lord. For as the heavens are higher than the earth, so are my ways higher than your ways and my thoughts than your thoughts. And he can make lots of arguments from that integrate text to refute false teaching and all that. But in this context, he's saying that I am such a gracious, gracious and loving and forgiving God, and you don't have that mindset. You don't think you deserve forgiveness? You don't think the Babylonians don't think the Assyrians deserve mercy. You don't think you deserve mercy? You raise that question? How can God forgive me? Because He's God. I have a hard time forgiving others. Sometimes I have a hard time forgiving myself. But God can do that. And that's what he's saying over here. My thoughts are not your thoughts. Neither are you. So he's answering their questions are coming out of captivity. They're a life of sin, long time in sin, and they don't think it's any way possible for them to get restored to the land to be forgiven, to be healed. And God says, Stop it. Don't listen to your own thinking, listen to me. Those are not my thoughts. And he goes on to explain that in verse 10, by saying, For as the rain in the snow come down from heaven, and do not return there, but water the earth, making it bring forth in sprout giving seed to the sower, and bread to the eater, so shall my word be that goes out of my mouth, it shall not return to me empty. But it shall accomplish that for which I purpose and shall succeed in the thing for which I sent it. So what you see over here is the what I'm saying, the glorious and infinite difference between God and as he's such a merciful God, that's why we sometimes seeing Amazing Grace, How can God forgive me? A life of sin. I think about my my life when I was a sailor and the stuff I did in a way I lived horrible stuff. And I struggled to keep bad thoughts out of my mind today. Again, the point is God, as a God of mercy and grace, and His mercy and grace is so much greater and higher than ours is his power to bring about real change. And restoration is infinitely greater than ours is another song that I like is called Greyston is great. Remember these words, marvelous grace of our loving Lord, Grace did exceeds our sin and our guilt, yonder on calories, mountain, outpoured, there with a blood of the lamb was spilled. Grace, grace, God's grace, grace that will pardon and cleanse within. Grace, grace, God's grace, grace that is greater than all of our sin. Do you believe that? Oh, say, Yeah, God's grace is greater than sand but not greater than my sin? Yeah, it is. That's the whole point. God's thoughts are not your thoughts. His ways are not your ways. What you think is impossible is entirely doable, and will be accomplished by God. Because he sends rain from heaven onto the earth, it nurses' the ground, it fertilizes the soil, it feeds the animals, it takes care of us. And it produces bread to the eater seed for the sower, that means God's word produces fruit God's is going to accomp God's going to accomplish his purposes. And so what you see here, in verses eight, nine, this is a phrase, probably get them from several different sources and combine that the glorious and infinite difference between God and man, his ways are so much higher in especially in this context of showing and demonstrating mercy and grace. Because we just don't think it's possible I don't understand how God could forgive certain people. Again, sometimes we don't think that God can even forgive me or you. But that's just the point God's grace is greater than our sin. Let's go to the last section here. And and verses 12 and 13. And so here we see the the result of the peace and the joy of restoration to the Lord. So you look through this chapter. This is it starts with this invitation to be well fed to be well led to seek the Lord, to understand the great difference between us and God, and God's word is going to go forth from his mouth is going to not going to return to Him empty, it will accomplish his purposes, God's word will be fulfilled. And, and then in verse 12, he says, For you will go out with joy, and be led forth in peace. The mountains in the hills before you shall break forth into singing, in all the trees in the field shall clap their hands, instead of the thorn shall come up the Cypress, instead of the briar shall come up the Myrtle and it shall make a name for the Lord and everlasting sign that shall not be cut off. So what's the result of restoration when God brings people back from captivity? And after all their sin, a lifetime of sin and rebellion and unbelievable activities that they were engaged in, they'll be restored to be forgiven, and you'll go out in joy and peace isn't that what we want? What we need peace and joy? That's what Jesus came to offer us. So if you go out and joy and peace and look at the language over here, when they come back from captivity, and ultimately is fulfilled in us, God's church today, the mountains and the hills before you shall break forth into singing, ever heard of mountain sing, his figurative language, but the mountains are shouting for joy. Hallelujah. God has forgiven us we've been restored. We've come to the mountain of the Lord and and the trees of the fields will clap their hands ever see a tree clap its leaves. Well, when the wind blows very hard, you can sometimes see that rattling, but it's an image here, that that the the trees are going to shout forth. And the result instead of the the curse and the pain of the Thorn and the briar, there'll be the rich and luxurious trees and plants like the Cypress in the myrtle. And all of this is so sure, you said that we know it'll, it shall make a name of it. And it shall make a name for the Lord and everlasting sign this shall not be cut off God wants to give assurance to his people. That no matter how bad we have been, or you have been, or I have been where you the wrong road that you've traveled in your life, God will forgive us, if we'll turn to Him, and repent of our sins and reach out to his loving arms of mercy and grace, and and then keep that permanent have that were part of an everlasting covenant. So there's a thought that I want to leave with you this morning that we were focusing on this morning. God says from my thoughts, and not your thoughts, neither are your ways my ways, declares the Lord. So what we really stress this morning is that God is much more compassionate, merciful and forgiving than we are. I think that's the connection to verse eight. God is much more merciful. And he is much more merciful and forgiving than we think he should be. Because so many times we say, I don't believe how can God possibly forgive those people? How can God possibly forgive me, on the same basis, sin a sin to miss the mark, as we say, when you missed the mark, you missed the mark, whether you missed it by a mile or 10,000 miles, it doesn't matter. If you missed the mark, you're lost. And we all need grace. So hopefully the lesson will be helpful for each of us this morning. And really, that's this chapter is really the great invitation that God gives to His people Israel. It's a message of free mercy for all and that's God's invitation that he extends to each of us this morning. If there's someone here this today who needs strength and grace and mercy God gives it to us sometimes, he uses other people to build us up to strengthen us as we seek to overcome our sins and our struggles. But if there's any here this morning, who needs respond to God's mercy and grace, we invite you to come out we stand and sing this song


Transcribed by https://otter.ai