Conrad Harkrider  00:04
Good morning. You want to open your Bibles up to the book of Joshua, Joshua chapter seven? When you think about history, and you look back at some of the great military leaders of all time, one of the names that comes to mind or that stands out is Napoleon Bonaparte. He was one of the greatest military leaders or generals in modern history. During his time as during his time in his reign through his campaigns, he conquered almost all of Western Europe that included Belgium, Holland, Austria, Germany, Spain, and Poland. And his coronation ceremony that was held at the Cathedral of Notre DOM. He proclaimed himself to be the Emperor of all France. He was the commander over the French Grand Army that had over 600,000 fighting men, this seemingly unstoppable force that was sweeping all over Europe. And because of his victories and his success, he had widespread popularity and fame among the common people. In 1812, Napoleon set his eyes to the east, and he decided he was going to invade Russia. And after six months of fighting and a cold, Russian winter, his amazing force of 600,000 had been reduced to about 10,000 men. He was defeated and forced to retreat back to France and in 1814, just two years after making that invasion, Napoleon was forced to abdicate his throne, and sent into exile on a Mediterranean island off the coast of Italy called Elba. From incredible victory, to then disastrous defeat. military strategists have studied Napoleon and his reign and looked for the various causes and reasons for his defeat. Apparently, Hitler didn't learn from history as he led his German army into Russia in 1941, and, and encountered a similar fate. But sometimes the reasons for defeat are not as apparent or easy to see in the book of Joshua and Joshua, chapter seven, the children of Israel go into the Promised Land, and they encounter their first defeat, they would quickly discover that the reason for their defeat was because of the actions of one man, the sin of Akin. breed with me in Joshua Chapter Seven, beginning in verse two. It says Now Joshua sent men from Jericho to AI, which is beside Beth Avon on the east side of Bethel, and spoke to them saying, Go up and spy out the country. So the men went up and spied out AI. And they returned to Joshua and said to him, do not let all the people go up. But let about two or 3000 men go up and attack AI. Do not weary all the people there, for the people of AI are few. So about 3000 men went up from there from the people, but they fled before the men of Ai. And the men of Ai struck down about 36 men for they chase them from before the gate as far as Shivaram and struck them down on the descent. Therefore, the hearts of the people melted and became like water. Then Joshua tore his clothes and fell to the earth on his face before the ark of the Lord until the evening, and he and the elders of Israel, and they put dust on their heads. And Joshua said, Alas, Lord God, why have you brought this peace? over the Jordan at all, to deliver us into the hand of the Amorites to destroy us. Oh, that we had been content and dwelt on the other side of the Jordan. Oh Lord, what shall I say when Israel turns its back before its enemies? For the Canaanites and all the inhabitants of the land will hear of it and surround us and cut off our name from the earth? Then what will you do for your great name? The Book of Joshua, of course, is set during the invasion and the conquest of Canaan. In Joshua chapter six, we're told about this amazing victory that God gives to His people at the city of Jericho. The men of the army and the priests marched around the city for seven days. And on that seventh day, the priests blow their trumpets, the people let out a great shout and the walls of Jericho, come crashing to the ground. But as the news begins to spread about Joshua, and the people of Israel and what they have done to Jericho and Jericho, it strikes fear in the hearts of all the inhabitants of the land who can possibly stand against this type of power. The next city that they set their sights on his AI, this is not nearly as big as Jericho, they send some spies up to gather some information, and they see that is so smaller. And so they decide to only send a force of about 3000. About 3000 men. After all, Jericho was not too difficult just seven days and they were able to take the city it's not as if they had to spend months and months laying siege to this city. And so surely a place like aI shouldn't be too much trouble. But as we see here, that success is often a breeding ground for complacency. When they go out to their shock and dismay, the Army is routed and we're told that there are 36 men among the people that are killed as a key statement made in verse five when it says that the hearts of the people melted. This is totally on expected. How could they suffer this type of defeat? When the Lord is on their side? Did you notice Joshua's reaction? It's even more dramatic as he tears his clothes, he falls to his face. And he begins to ask this question. Why did you bring us over the Jordan River? Why did you bring us into the land if you're just going to kill us? This sounds a lot like Exodus chapter 14. And verse 11, when the people are being pursued by Pharaoh and his army, and they asked the question to the Lord, were there no graves in Egypt? Is that why you have brought us into the wilderness? To die? Joshua suggests to the Lord that it would have just been better for them if they had never entered into Canaan in the first place. What is going on here? How can God allow this to happen? Going from the great victory, the triumph that Jericho and now this defeat at the hands of a much smaller city at AI, you can imagine that the people who are at the very start of this conquest are thinking to themselves if we can't handle AI, if we can't take care of this small city, how are we going to be prepared to go on to bigger and much stronger enemies? And you see the vulnerability of Joshua. He's afraid he's questioning God. He's asking, why has this happened? Is the Lord really going to stand by us? Is he going to protect us? Is he going to be faithful to all the promises that he's made? The Lord gives an answer to Joshua is probably not what we would expect in verse 10. Joshua, chapter seven, verse 10, it says, So the Lord said to Joshua, get up. Why do you lie to us on your face? Israel has sinned and they have also transgress my covenant which I commanded them, for they have even taken some of the accursed things and have stolen and deceived and they have also put it among their own stuff. What a response from the Lord. He tells Joshua to Get up, to stop throwing dust on your head to stop laying on the ground, to stop feeling sorry for yourself and get going. The reason that the people have suffered defeat at AEI is because the Lord had not gone up with him. He says in verse 11, that Israel has sinned, and now the curtain has been lifted from Joshua's eyes. He understands the reason for their defeat, the people have taken some of the devoted things. The devoted things one of the primary tenants of worship and sacrifice is this principle of offering the first fruits to the Lord, that God deserves the first of our worship of our produce. In Deuteronomy chapter 26, the people were instructed to give the first of their harvest. In Deuteronomy chapter 15, verse 19, they were told to give the firstborn from their flock Abel and genesis for offered the firstborn from his flock. And so as Jericho is the first city that they come upon in the land, they're told to dedicate all of the spoil the gold, the silver, the bronze, the iron, Joshua 619, all of this has to be given in dedication to the Lord. But someone has transgressed. Someone has taken something among the dedicated things and kept it for themselves. In verse 14, it says, In the morning, therefore you shall be brought according to your tribes, and it shall be that the tribe which the Lord takes shall come according to families, and the family which the Lord takes shall come by households, and the household which the Lord takes shall come, man, by man. The Lord tells Joshua that in the morning, you are going to see the Lord is going to reveal who has done this thing. Can you imagine what it would be like to be in the camp? That night as you're going to bed and you start to hear about the reasons the source of this trouble the the cause of this defeat was because someone has taken something from the spoil. And as everyone is laying down that night, they are thinking to themselves, who was it? Was it someone from our tribe? Was it someone from our family? I imagine there was conversation over dinner that night, your wife is asking you are you sure that you didn't stick anything in your pocket even by accident, it must have been incredibly tense for the people. But that next morning, Joshua brings all of the tribes together. You can see they're all lined up or they're they're standing before the Lord and the Chu the tribe of Judah is selected. from the tribe of Judah, it is the Zehra heights that are chosen, and from the tribe, and from the Zehra heights it is the clan of the family of zap D and from the children of zap D akin the son of Carmi. is chosen. Why doesn't the Lord just call out the person's name? Why does it Moses just walk over and find the person who has done this? Why go through this whole procession of having all the people stand out before the Lord and calling the tribe and then the clan and then the family all the way down to the individual this would have been quite a process to go through. But perhaps the Lord is giving an opportunity for repentance. Instead of being divinely signal signaled out maybe this person who has committed the sin could step forward and and take responsibility and say no, no more need to draw straws or cast lots. I'm the one who has done this thing. Another possibility is that this would have had an impact on the congregation that each person would have been thinking about and considering their own actions and their own thoughts and behavior if an FBI agent walked in to the church this morning, and he said someone in this building has committed a very serious crime. Well, each one of us would be thinking that I pay my taxes this year Have I done something? Did I transfer money illegally? You know what is going on? Is it me? And so the people would have been sober and thinking about their own status before God, but Joshua narrows it down until Aiken is called for. And he admits to the crime. He says that he saw among the spoil of beautiful Babylonian garments, 200 shekels of silver, and a wedge of gold that weighed 50 shackles. And he says that they are buried underneath his tent. Joshua sends messengers to go and search and they come and they find these things and they lay them out before the Lord and akin his sentence to death. But not only him but also his entire family and all of his possessions are stoned with stones. This is such a sad story from the Old Testament. And because of this man's actions that the entire conquest is spotted, it's it's blemished. It's put on hold, because the nation goes from great victory to utter defeat. Well, there are a number of lessons that we can learn from this account about the nature of sin, about how sin works and how it can affect us. And the first one is this idea that sin cannot be hidden. Sin is not something that can be concealed. Look at verse 22. Joshua seven verse 22, it says, So Joshua sent messengers and they ran to the tent, and there it was hidden in his tent, with the silver under it. And they took them from the midst of the 10 brought them to Joshua and all the people of Israel and laid them out before the Lord. Akin has taken the spoil from Jericho and hid these items underneath his tent. After all, if they are out of sight, if they are out of you, then no one will ever know that a few things have been withheld. Akin must have reason that after a few months after some time has passed, people will just forget about the things that were devoted to the Lord, anything that was taken out of Jericho, and so he tries to hide and conceal his sin. There's a natural inclination to hide the wrongs that we've done. You remember Adam and Eve in the Garden After they had eaten from the tree that God told them not to touch not to take from? What does it say they were doing? They were hiding in the garden. David covered up his sin with Bathsheba by trying to conceal it by having Uriah killed in battle. And the Pharisees covered their greed and deceit by dressing up in these elaborate clothes and by saying and offering these long prayers. But is it possible? Is it possible to hide our sin? But TBI, the Tennessee Bureau of Investigation investigation, their headquarters is just off of Ellington Parkway real close to Broadmoor. But on their website, you can go and look at a list of cold cases, cases where a crime has been committed. And they are still searching for the perpetrator. Someone has not been brought to justice. And sometimes we think that if we are not caught if we're not found out if there's no consequence or punishment for the things that we've done, then it's like it never happened. But the Bible shows us that we can deceive our neighbors. We can deceive those around us we can hide from authorities, even conceal it from our family. But there is nothing that is hidden from the eyes of the Lord. And Hebrews chapter four and verse 13. It says nothing in all creation is hidden from God's sight. Everything is uncovered and laid bare before the eyes of Him to whom we must give account. God sees God knows the things that we do and the Hebrew writer says that in the end we are going to give an account we are going to answer to God For the things that we've done in this life, I heard someone joke one time that they wanted their roommate, if something ever happened to them, if they ever died, they wanted their roommate to go in and to delete all of their browsing history to wipe everything off of their computers so that their parents, their mom and dad, their their family, their grandparents wouldn't have to see they wouldn't have to, to know about all of the things that were on their phone or their computer. Can you imagine at at your funeral? Instead of having someone stand up to say some nice words about you and talk about the good things that you've done? What if we just pulled up a list of the recently watched from the last month? And people could just view that to get a better sense of who we are of the things that we like the interests, that we have the shows the movies, the websites, what would that look like? Just because it's viewed in the privacy of our of our home, just because it's done behind closed doors when no one is watching or seeing us doesn't mean those things aren't shameful. We need to remember this lesson from akin that our sin cannot be hidden. We also see that sin promises more than it can deliver. Look at verse 21. It says when I saw among the spoils a beautiful Babylonian garment 200 shekels of silver, a wedge of gold weighing 50 shekels, I coveted them and took them. And there they are hidden in the earth in the midst of my tent with the silver. underneath it. It appears that a Ken is not intending to keep these things. Or to take these things when he goes into the city of Jericho. We're not told about an elaborate plan that he had, about how he was thinking about this for a long time. And he was looking for these items and planning to take them. But instead it says that when he saw them, he coveted them. He desired them and took them for himself. James chapter one and verse 14 says that each person is tempted when they are enticed or lured by their own desires. And that's what happens here with akin he sees these things and he is enticed by his desires. And he steals these treasures not from Joshua, not from the people, but he takes these things from the Lord. Why does Aiken decide to do this? Is he living in a sea of poor man? Is he just trying to feed his family, he's taking this gold and this silver so that he can provide for himself? Well, verse 24, we're told that he has sons, and daughters, donkeys, and oxen, and sheep. He was a man of upstanding of resources. He has a reasonable amount of livestock and possessions. So it doesn't appear that Aiken is living a life of poverty, not that that would make this ride, but Aiken seems to have fallen into the trap of greed. That's what sin does. Sin convinces us that we need more that our current state our current position is is not enough that we will be happier, we will be better off that we'll have more fun or more no enjoyment if we just indulge ourselves if we partake in some type of pleasure. Sin always promises more than it can deliver. What it can do with his beautiful Babylonian garment. Was he wearing it around the camp? Nikita, imagine that he puts this thing on and someone sees it and they're like, where did you get that thing? Oh, I got it at the markets 800 miles away. I mean, it would just stand out. There was no way he could possibly use this. Instead it is buried under a pile of dirt in his tent. What was he really getting out of this money out of these things that he had taken ultimately it brings disaster upon him and his family and always offers more or it seems to promise more than it can really give And this is especially true with materialism covetousness. We see all the things around us, we think, Well, if I just had this, then I would be happy. Or if I had what they have, then I would be content. I'd be satisfied how many people have gone through the process of remodeling their home or building a brand new house and they get to the end of that process after five or six months or a couple of years? Are they still happy? Are they still ecstatic? Are they still fulfilled? Or do they feel restless and discontent and instill wanting more? We get that new outfit that gadget online. We're excited about it, when it first comes. But how long does that excitement last? When we seek fulfillment in things in possessions and stuff, than it ultimately will leave us feeling discontent always wanting more. The pleasure that sin offers, is temporary, by its very nature, and it pales into comparison by the blessings that we have in Christ. So it's a warning for us not to be misled. Not to be fooled by what sin offers us it promises much more than it can deliver. Another lesson we see from this account is that sin affects those around us. Notice verse chapter seven. In verse one. It says with the children of Israel committed a trespass regarding the accursed things for akin the son of car my took these accursed things, so the anger of the Lord burn against the children of Israel. It says that the children of Israel took these things that Israel had sinned, not just Akin, but the trespass of one person had brought guilt and shame upon the entire nation. This restriction about taking something from the spoil was not always in place. If you continue to read on to the book of Joshua, you see in chapter eight that God tells his people eight verse two, that they can take the spoil from the city of AI. And so if he had had just waited a few more cities, if he had just delayed his desires, then he could have taken these things rightfully. But instead, he brings sin and trouble to the whole camp. 36 men are killed, and ultimately, Aikens entire family would be stoned. It seems that the family may have known about what was going on in his tent, maybe they were included in helping him hide these things. But regardless of whether they knew about it or not, sin can affect those around us. We often think that sin is this, it's a personal thing. You know, this is my decision. This is my, this is my problem. This is between me and God. But sin is rarely done in a vacuum. Often our actions have a significant influence on the people around us. The other day, I was out working in the yard and one of the kids Hudson, he picked up a stick. And he was waving it around at the bottom at the base of a tree making all kinds of noise with his mouth. And I walked over there and I said, What are you doing? He said, I'm working on my edging. I'm thinking I can't wait until he can actually help me with the edging. But what's going on there, I've never told him to go and do that. He's learning all of that through observation. Kids are constantly watching us whether they are our own children, or their other kids that are around us that look up to us. They see the clothes we wear the things we talk about how we treat other people. They pick up on those things. So much of what we teach them is not in the things that we say but in the things that we do. Instead of our action causing others to stumble. We should be seeking to be a blessing to be a light and example to those around us. Matthew chapter five and verse 16, says in the same way, let your light shine before others so that they may see your good works and give glory to your Father who is in heaven. Sin can have an effect on the people around us but also when we serve and use our talents and abilities for good that can have a positive impact on the people that are close to us and find We see that sin must be removed. In verse 25. It says that Joshua said, why have you troubled us, the Lord will trouble you this day. So all Israel stone him with stones, and they burn them with fire after they had stone them with stones. They bring akin and all of his possessions, including the items that he took from Jericho. The stuff that he wanted so badly is thrown into the pile. And he is stoned and they set them on fire. This may seem harsh, this may seem Jurassic, drastic to us. But God is making a point. He's reminding his people that sin cannot be tolerated that God's word must be honored and respect it. You see the urgency of Joshua and the people Joshua wakes up early in the morning to to find the person who has done this thing. When akin says that the things are in his tent, the people that messengers are sent, they run to the tent, there is this urgency to remove these things. This account reminds us of Ananias and Sapphira. In Acts chapter five, when they had lied to the Holy Spirit regarding a piece of land that they had sold, they are punished by death, because of their deceit. And we see that at the beginning of the conquest. And at the beginning of the establishment of the church, God sends a message to his people that sin is not okay that sins should not be tolerated or accepted among them. Removing sin, when we see it, there's some type of foul odor in the house. What do we typically do with that? Maybe at first it starts off, and it's not very strong. But if it starts to get worse and worse, whether it's from one of the pets or one of the kids or wherever the source is, we start to search for it. And eventually, when we find that thing that is causing this causing our nose to turn, what do we do with it, we take it in and just set it in the next room over No, we're removing it from the house, we're taking it out to the garbage can ultimately is taken up to the street and hauled off to a place that is far away from us. And the parallel is do we see sin as something that is rotted? Something that is repulsive, that is foul, something that needs to be completely removed from our hearts. Revelation chapter to the church and thigh retiro was rebuked by the Lord, because they continue to allow this woman to carry on to be in their midst to cause other people to sin. We see that whether it's in our own families, our own lives, or even among our congregation, sin is so damaging, so destructive, something that cannot just be allowed to stay in our midst, but it must be removed. We should never be comfortable with sin. But always having the courage and the faith and the conviction to be able to stand up and say I'm going to turn away from these things. I'm going to take them out of my life. We sing a number of songs about Jesus, about his sacrifice, about why he came. Jesus didn't die on the cross so that we would have a place to be together with with friends and nice people. Jesus didn't die on the cross so that we could have something to talk about and something to remember. Jesus gave his life so that we could have our sins. If there's someone here this morning that needs to make a public confession if there's something that we can do to encourage or help or support you and your fight against sin, then why don't you use this opportunity. The brothers and sisters here stand ready to help and support you in whatever way you might need. There's something that we can do, please come down to the front as we stand and sing


Transcribed by https://otter.ai