Mike Roy  00:03
It's a wonderful opportunity that we have to come and worship our God in heaven. And we get a good crowd this evening. And as we get more back to normalcy, and we'll, we should fill this building up pretty, pretty quickly, pretty full. So it's great to come and worship with you this evening. And appreciate those songs that John left for us this evening, as we learn to shift our focus, and our gaze on God. And both the Hindu and Buddhist religions, they use mantras, to aid in their constant concentration during meditation. I don't really know what they're saying, you watch videos of them doing that and haven't done I guess, done that I don't know the last time I saw that, but the mantra is help them to concentrate on what they're doing. We don't use the term mantra much in our culture don't really say it very much. But the truth is we use mantras all the time. And there's probably a lot of examples I could use just share a few we say the phrase like less is more. And that becomes something to a filter by which we think about our lives. We say things I say lots, especially to my mom, this too shall pass. That's so true. Or sometimes in a negative way, we might say something like, Oh, I'm such a loser. That's not a good thing to say. But it's a mantra when somebody says that, or somebody says everything I eat turns to fat. Well, again, best things that we say. And so the point is we use mantras all the time. And I want to share with you a I'm gonna call it a mantra, but it's a biblical truth. I shared this at our last fight club meeting with Trevor and Brad. And the phrase is the truth, his gaze, hit God, and glance it live. So put this down in your notebook, your iPad, your iPhone, whatever you use. This is a powerful truth that will help us to navigate the challenges that we face that all of us face. In our lives. I came across this probably a month or two ago somewhere, read an article online and it got my attention. And so I thought I'd better work this into a lesson. So simply using that phrase for each of us that we need to learn to gaze at God and glance it live in another Hebrew writer admonishes us to look to Jesus who is the author, and perfecter of our faith. The NASB says, We're to fix our eyes on Jesus own preaching. We want to be balanced in our preaching and preach about God's love, His patience, his faithfulness, we also need to preach on God's judgment and punishment that awaits those who are impenitent. But what helps us to stay the course is to gaze at God and to glance at life. So I've built my lesson around this phrase. And what I want to do with this is I'll stress this at the end of the lesson is to turn this into a daily mantra. I'm asking you to say this out loud. When you start your day in the morning today, I choose to gaze at God, and I'm going to glance at life. So let me suggest to you that the Scriptures teach us that we need to gaze at God. And here's some examples that I want you to consider me briefly, Acts chapter seven. This is where the disobedient hardened Jews were in the Jewish leadership. So they was stoning Steven to death. And they heard him speak when they heard these things they were in raised to ground their teeth in him. But he followed the Holy Spirit gazed into heaven, and saw the glory of God. So Steven, in a moment of crisis, gazed into heaven. And he saw God's glory, and says, he's so also Jesus standing at the right hand of God. So this was Stephen practicing this mantra. And in a moment of crisis and trial, he was gazing at God gazing God's throne. And so the text says, that he said, Behold, I see the heavens opened in the Son of Man standing at the right hand of God. I'm gonna suggest to you that this this truth helped to get Steven through this crisis. And a text goes on to say he even asked God to forgive these people who were murdering him. But he had his gaze focused on God in heaven. And I want to suggest that when we have our gaze focused on God, we can do anything and overcome any trial or temptation. Second Corinthians chapter three is another passage that teaches us to gaze at God literally. This is Paul is contrasting the weakness of the Old Testament law in fact, the Jews had to have Moses put a veil over his face when he, they looked at him when it came down from Mount Sinai. This, I think, is a reference here. But it says, verse 16, but when one turn to the Lord, the veil is removed, says, Now the Lord is the Spirit and where the Spirit of the Lord is, there's freedom. And he says, we all as New Testament Christians, with unveiled face, beholding we just sang that song, behold, our God beholding the glory of the Lord. So this is the kind of fan to stand a kind of array of verb in the New Testament. But it's, it's challenging us to keep our focus on God to be hold him, to see him in all of his glory and holiness. And when we do that, we're transformed into the same image from glory, from one degree of glory to the other. For this comes from the Lord, who is the spirit. So Paul is teaching us that we need to behold, the glory of God, the new Rick, the New International Version puts it puts it this way, and we all who with unveiled faces, contemplate the Lord's glory. So I want to suggest to us that beholding God really involves contemplating him thinking about his greatness, His holiness, His purity, His justice, his wrath, His love and His grace. And so again, Scripture teaches us very plainly, that we need to be hold the Lord's glory, one of the passage that indicates this. So in Hebrews chapter 12, the writer says, We're surrounded by this great cloud of witnesses, where to lay aside every sin, the weight that holds us back. And he tells us in verse two, to looking unto Jesus, that's one of the songs that we think deceiving looking unto Jesus. So that's really the focus that we need to have on a daily basis, the and so that, just for your understanding, looking into Jesus is its lead phrases translated a couple of different ways. The New American Standard, which I've been using, for a long time, the 1995 edition says, fixing our eyes on Jesus, it's interesting when they came out with the updated New American Standard verse, and they changed it to looking only at Jesus. And if we can learn to look only at Jesus and audit our trials, and our temptations of burdens, and all that kind of thing, that he can, that will that focus will help us get through the challenges that we face. So the scriptures I want to say at the beginning, admonish us to to look at our God to behold our God to think about God to contemplate his greatness, and His Holiness. First three is repetition of that he says, For consider Him who endured such hostility by sinners against himself, so that he will not grow weary, loose hearts will considering him as the same as looking at him. So clearly want to say that the scriptures urge us urge us to gaze at God. Secondly, when I suggest that scriptures also affirm this truth that we are to glance at life so that we don't take life too seriously. We just kind of glance at it. And I'll talk about what that means in just a minute. But in Second Corinthians, chapter four, verse 16, this would be Apostle Paul writing, he said, so we don't lose heart, though our outer self is wasting away, our inner self is being renewed day by day. Then he says, For this slight momentary affliction is producing for us an eternal weight of glory, beyond all comparison, as we look not to the things that are seen, so Paul's telling us to glance at life, because we don't look at the things that are seeing. But the things that are unseen, for the things that are seen are transient. Even this brand new building that we put together, is a temporary location, just our stomping ground. So what we see visibly whether it's the building, or trees or or anything, these are all temporary things. My question is, did Paul manifest this attitude that he glance at life? I've suggested he did? He did when Paul's writing this from prison, I believe, what was his mindset? He said, For this light, momentary affliction. So Paul's in a prison cell for the gospel of Christ. And his heart is full of joy as he tries to save souls of brethren in Christ. So Paul, again, was not focused on his pain. If I find my found myself in prison for preaching the gospel, I'm afraid I might have a little pity party, like, I can't believe this. What am I doing here? I mean, I'm just trying to do God's will. And all of a sudden it's all about me. Paul wasn't thinking about himself. And so, Paul, learn to glance just take a glance at his trials and tribulations and not let them over overpower him. Another path is First John chapter two verses 15 through 17. John says Do not love the world of the things in the world. If anyone loved the world The love of the Father is not in him. For all of us in the world, the desire to the flesh, and the desires of the eyes and pride of life is not from the Father, but is from the world. So he says, Do not love the world or the things in the world. And then he said in the world is passing away. This world is passing away. It's not permanent. We're here for just a short time, just a few days, almost literally. And so we need to glance it live. So the world is passing away along with his desires, desire and lust can rage in the hearts of all of us. One of the things to help us maintain a heart of purity, is to practice some things that Steven arterburn put out in his book, every man's battle. He said, We need to bounce our eyes and starve our eyes. Bounce our eyes, when we see something that's immodest, or something's on television. In course, this is a time of the year we were enjoying the Olympics, many of us probably are, but almost at every turn, whether it's the swimmer or the volleyball people, or whoever it may be, they're in little bikinis. So I have to bounce my eyes. And sometimes we have to turn off the TV, or do something else. So we're encouraged to bounce our eyes and to starve our eyes. So that helps us to glance at this live. So Scripture tells us to gaze at God and to glance at life. The question now is, what does it mean, practically to gaze at God. And I'm going to put these up on the screen and talk about some of these briefly. But it means that we gaze a God's creation when reason I think we most of us love to be outside and go to the mountains or go to the ocean, or that type of thing. When we go to the mountains, we see the grantor of God, the glory, the majesty of God, nobody can make these mountains. God alone can do that. The sunrise, the sunset, all that type of thing. So when we gaze at God's creation, we gaze at him and we see His power. To gaze at God means to gaze at his glory. And that really is kind of implied in that same point. To gaze at God means we gaze at his word, Jeremy talked about that, that God's word is the central element of where we find truth. So we, when we gaze at God's Word, we gaze at him, we listen to him, we reference him. This is what it means to gaze at God, what has he written? And let's pay attention to that. Another thing that is involved in gazing at GAVI gates, it is promises God has promised never to leave us or to forsake us to forgive us of all of our sins. Don't forget the magnificent, and the precious promises that God has given Peter wrote that and Second Peter chapter one. So it's to gaze a God means gaze at his promises. They're powerful, and they're real. Also, we gaze at His Holiness were encouraged and challenged in First Peter chapter one to be holy, God says, because I am holy. So when we gaze at the holiness of God revealed in Scripture, then we learn to become like him. We gaze at his love, God is love. That's the That's the essence of God. And so when we we look at God's characteristic of love, and the fact that He sent His Son, to suffer and die for our sins, it was motivated out of profound love for you. And for me, so we gave it to God, when we gave it his love. We gave it his mercy, and we understand how gracious he is to each of us. We gaze at his justice, so many times, we get so upset about this world and politics and the corruption that's around us. We forget that God is a God of justice. And one day, he will say, the buck stops here, that sins stops here, deception, stuff stops here, corruption stops here. God is a God of justice, and he will have perfect justice on the perfect day of judgment. And so when we gaze at God and gates, it is justice revealed in Scripture, then it helps us to keep our gaze on him. One thing that we have to do is we get a gazes at his wrath. So anyone a gaze is His mercy in His grace. We'll look at some scriptures here in just a moment. But you have to see the wrath of God, because God doesn't want us to be caught up in sin. And so here's I'm not going to go through all these verses. But here's just a few Psalm chapter 19, verses one and two, The heavens declare the glory of God and the sky above proclaims His handiwork, day to day pours out speech and night tonight reveals knowledge so when we look up into the heavens, whether it's in the mountains or in your backyard, we see the glory of God is you know, there have overrun our the state of Tennessee. It's not uncommon in our backyard in the evening morning, almost any time of the day. There's 678-910-1214 deer and a bunch of babies coming to feed under this cherry tree in our backyard, so amazing. But just a reminder of that, that God is the one who made the animals he made all of these things. Isaiah chapter 40, when God is encouraging the people of Judah through Isaiah, to overcome the upcoming captivity, he says go up into a high mountain, oh, Zion Hill, the Herald of good news. Lift up your voice with strength, oh, Jerusalem, herald of good news lifted up, fear not and say to the cities of Judah, behold your god appreciate that song that again that Jeff John left for us this evening. That's what he told him to do. These are people going into captivity, they are going to be at their wit's end, disaster and suffering and affliction beyond comprehension. What's he tell him to do? Behold, your God. What does that mean? says, Behold the Lord. He comes with my, in his arm rules for him. So when you Behold God, what you see then as a god of strength and power, he is able to deliver the we sometimes sing that song, behold, His reward is with him. So when we behold God, we think about the reward that he has promised us, and also the recompense that that comes so the Justice comes in the reward of heaven, or punishment, in hell is also part of God's character so that to gaze a God means that we behold him again. One of the ways that we gaze a goddess to gaze in His Word, this is a Deuteronomy chapter six verses 49. Here, O Israel, the LORD our God, the Lord is One You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul with all your mic, and these words that I command you today shall be on your heart. Again, when we focus on God's Word, we gaze is His Word, we gaze at him and everything else that this verse is saying, These verses are saying, show us what it means to gaze at God in terms of teaching our children, teach them diligently to your children, talk to them, when you sit in your house, when you walk, by the way, when you lie down, when you rise up, bind them as a sign on your hand, there shall be as frontlets between your eyes, you shall write them on the doorposts of your house and on your gates. And that's why a lot of the members here but more have scripture written on their walls or their door post, or maybe on your ceiling. Anybody have it on her ceiling. But suppose somebody probably does. But yeah, writes scripture everywhere, and put it on your on your wrist, put it anywhere close to you. So you can see that quickly. He was chapter four, again, to gaze at God, we have to see His mercy and His grace group and study Hebrews course on Wednesday night. And verse 15, says that we don't have a high priest who cannot sympathize with our weaknesses, but One who has been tempted and all things just as we are yet with us, and therefore, let's approach the throne of grace. We approach the throne of grace with confidence so that we receive mercy and find grace to help us in our time of need. God is a God of grace. He is a God of mercy. And when we focus on his mercy that helps us to see who God is. The other element we'll be talking about this, perhaps Lord willing Wednesday night. The writer says if we go on sinning WILLFULLY, after receiving the knowledge of the truth, there no longer remains a sacrifice for sin, but a terrifying expectation in the fury of a fire which will consume the adversaries. Why does a loving God write such descriptive and horrible use language like this, this describing the nature of how, why does God who loves us so much warn us of this fate? If we disobeyed Him if we walk away from him, it's because he doesn't want you to go there. The reason a God has so clearly revealed His Word in this way, he does not want us to go there. The scripture says Vengeance is mine I will repay is a terrifying thing to fall into the hands of the living God. So gazing at God takes place when we look at his word, we look at his creation and look at all the aspects of his character. So let's think about this practically, then what what happens that the challenge is to gaze at God, man understand that I can generally do that pretty well for a short period of time, then I lose my focus, lose, lose that that type of mindset. But I want to say is think about the rewards and the benefits when you Gaze of God. Your God gets bigger and stronger, more powerful murmurs more merciful. When you gaze at God, your faith gets stronger. The more you look into God's heart of love and mercy and grace when we become like him, when he gives a god your reward becomes clearer. Have a sound like I'm ready to go to heaven. Take me there now, Lord, come quickly. Have you ever had that mindset? Oh, no, no, don't come right now we're gonna make some money and get to travel around the world and do different things. But when you gaze at God, it's like heaven is so important to you that nothing else matters. So when you gaze a God also on the flip side, your trial seems smaller. So the temptations to birds that we might face seem smaller, your temptations have less pull on you. Less pull me when I'm gazing at God, Satan has a harder time to bring me down. And again, when we gaze it God, earthly wealth loses its appeal to you. If God promised us, you eternal glory, I'm ending riches and honor beyond comprehension. Or you can get a million dollars of paper money or gold coins. You're going to choose the the earthly thing that's going to vanish quickly. No. So when you gaze at God, he gets bigger, it gets stronger, and our reward becomes clearer. And I want to suggest to us that, that when we gaze at God, we can overcome pain and peer pressure, temptations, trials, and disappointments. And again, the truth is, when when I gaze at God, I can do anything, when you gaze at God, you can do anything that God wants you to do. The problem is we're like Peter, so often we see Jesus walking on the water, and Peters with the other disciples in a boat, says, Lord, command me to come walk on the water. Nobody else said that Peter got out of the boat in the midst of a storm and walked on water. So amazing. Until he saw the wind the waves and heard the wind howling, then it began to sink. And they said, Lord saved me. And how many of us are like Peter, I mean, first of all, most of us wouldn't get out of the boat, per se. You get out of the boat, not me. But Peter get out of the boat, and he walked on water, as long as his eyes were fixed on Jesus. And when he took his eyes off Jesus and saw the trials around him the challenges and he began to sing. So when he gave the Gaze of God, our strength becomes stronger. So on the flip side, as we're looking at this phrase, and see what does it mean to glance at life, make sure we understand. So we're to gaze at God and just glance it live. What does that mean? Well, that means that you glance at your wealth, you making a lot of money. Having a lot of savings, have a beautiful house, that's great. Enjoy it for a few days, before it's gone. So we glance at wealth, but if I get a big paycheck or make a big commission, like oh, man, I just got this big job. Great, then I could pay my bills, my supplies, my work is like, Oh, here's some money for food to you know, put on the table for the family. So we glance at well, but we tend to we tend to gaze it well Whoa. We look at that and seem so impressive to us. Sort of glance at life means we glance at your successes. And again, the same thing human nature is that we we focus on things that we we've done and we kind of get so wrapped up in that but the Atlantic life means to glance at your successes, wrote this phrase down recently heard from a South African swimmer, she says All Glory to God alone. It's a Latin phrase. Think about that. That was her motto All Glory to God alone. Wow, I don't know but you but if I'm swimming and win the gold medal and the butterfly or whatever the stroke is like man, did you see that? But that's that's the mindset so we need to glance at our success and not be overwhelmed by that. We need to glance at our educational achievements, we can just use all kinds of different examples maybe you've done really well in school or college of continuing that type of thing. If you've done that To God be the glory give him back because we're going by the wayside before too long glance at your good healthy physique, maybe you're in really good shape and and you're in really great health enjoy that. And but that doesn't last forever, even now, as I'm getting a little bit older. I look around at some of these young guys like Isaac and Jesse and and Evan and thinking man, you know, I was once like that myself. I had that energy and vitality. I could run fast and and I have to say I resort to the phrase from Ken Leach. He used to say the older I get the better I was. I'm sorry, Norma had to say that one more time. The older I get the better I was. Okay, get over it. Yeah, life is moving on. So to glance at life means we don't get caught up in the physical things of this world. Again, on the flip side, what it means to glance at life is you glance at your failures, anybody have any failures to deal with? In fact, everybody would have to raise their hand if we asked that question to, to all of us glance at your failures, what do I do? Oh, I can't believe I did that I can't believe what I did, how I betrayed my god, I failed my family and whatever it may be. But we glance at our failures, God's grace is sufficient for every failure that I've ever experienced. So you have so glance at your failures, glance at your pain. You see what you're you don't understand a level of pain I'm dealing with Yes, I do. I mean, the WHO human being, we all have it at some level. And I'm not saying this is not easy. But the question is, how do I do that? Well, by trust by faith by reaching out to others by prayer, but we can do that. So glancing at life means glance at your pain, and don't say this is it, you know, what was me? Glance at you poverty, probably not applicable, you know, in our audience this evening, but there are times when all of us have no more money. And people have reached the point of bankruptcy and all types of those things happen to two people to Christians, that too many of us. And so again, just reminded when we glance at life, we glance at our poverty, glasses, you're suffering, that's not an easy thing to do, when you're suffering is like you can't even get your mind off your suffering. But God is telling us to glance at your suffering. That's what Paul did. I mean, he spent much of his life in Roman imprisonment, never complained, because he was on on a journey to heaven. And he was trying to help all of his listeners get there, that includes you and me. So Paul was really thinking about you and me as well. So when we glanced at life, and we glanced at our suffering, again, these are just examples to help us to relate to this phrase, gaze at God and glance at it live, glance at your loneliness. Again, that's not an easy thing to do. And it doesn't mean that you're the only people who experienced loneliness are people who are, you know, be relieved of your spouse or whoever it may be. But loneliness takes, you know, the place in almost almost any family. And, and you can feel that way. And again, it's can seem to be almost overwhelming. But God is bigger, God is greater. I wear this bracelet that says God is bigger. He is bigger than our trials bigger than a difficult difficulties. He's bigger than Even your loneliness. And the truth of the matter is, God is with us as promised never to leave us or to forsake us. I was listening to a song. The other day is actually started out probably in contemporary Christian music, but some acapella Jeremy's got somebody that's called never alone. So I thought about that phrase, it's, I need to work that into a sermon. So if you hear it somewhere down the road, that this went on my head, never alone. Think about that truth. As a Christian, you are never alone. God is always with you, even in your loneliness. So this is what it means to glance at life. I hope that's helpful for each of us. Now, what happens if we invert that and we flip that? What happens when you gaze at life and glance at God as not good. So when you when you gaze at life, then all of a sudden, my trials and temptations appear bigger? Like, oh, I can't believe this, I'll never overcome this difficulty, this challenge, my burdens get bigger. My worry and anxiety spin out of control, I need help. I need help. I'm just worried to death. I'm just anxious can't even control my anxiety. Because I'm gazing at the issues that bother me instead of gazing at God. So when you gaze at life, you compound your problems. And, and, and so life becomes much more challenging. And we have less trust in God, so many gays, it live. Again, our pain gets more difficult to bear. And again, the reason is because I'm focusing on my pain and not on my God. So the challenge is to gaze at God. And obviously, this is a challenge. We are to gaze at God on a regular basis. And again, when I gaze at life, and obviously my heavenly reward seems so far away. I'm making a lot of money, popular, well accepted in life and get 1000 likes on my Facebook page or whatever. So when I gaze at life, then my heavenly reward seems so far away like what why do I even need that I've got all the money, all the friends I want. Then I wonder if discipleship is worth the suffering when I'm gazing at life. And then I begin to question God's love, His mercy and His grace. So the challenge for us this evening is they kind of bring my lesson to a close tonight. The challenge is to keep our gaze God fixed on God to keep our focus there and not to lose sight of what is most important. So my lessons, I try to make them as practical as I can. And this is a takeaway for you this evening. Again, right IRS urge you to write this down, it may be worth a million dollars to you. And if it is, I'll give you my Venmo account and pay pal and you can send that my way as well. But this is a daily mantra, you get to say it out loud. So today I choose to gaze at God and get up in the morning today I choose to gaze at God gaze in His Word gaze in his creation, get gaze his love gay gays, it is holding us. And today I choose to glance at life. And not you'll start off that way, Lord willing, tomorrow morning and you're on fire, I'm gazing a god and I'm glancing at life. And then within 30 minutes, you get caught up with emails and, and bills come in the mail and this and that. And all of a sudden, we lose that game. For like PETA, we take our eyes off of Jesus. So the real The reality is, we need this. This is a mantra that we can say, every day. But we have to really say much of the day, when you find yourself down and discouraged and depressed. Go back to your mantra, which says, I choose to gaze at God in spite of my difficulty in spite of my feelings of unworthiness, or failure or suffering or loneliness. So today, I choose to gaze a god, and I choose to glance glance at life and I wrote this stuff, this is my phone. So I get up in the morning, I look at all these things I've saved and I get a ton of either quotations of scripture or things like this Gaze of God, and I choose to glance at life if we invert those and we hurt ourselves. So let me say the question what's the result of gazing at God gazing at the glory of God? We become more like Him. Paul says, Our citizenship, citizenship is in heaven. And from it we await a Savior, Lord Jesus, who will transform our lowly body to be like his glorious body. And really, I should have put second Corinthians chapter three, the type design because as we gaze as we behold God, we are transformed into His likeness with ever increasing glory. So the more we gaze at God, that our glorious God, we become a little bit more and more glorious, until one day you have a glorious body like that of God and Heaven. Can't wait for that day, somebody here this evening who needs to obey the gospel? You can do that through faith, repentance, confessing your your faith before others being baptized, have your sins forgiven, it may be that you need prayers for your struggles and trials. And the truth is that we all have them. Anyone here this evening who needs to respond in any way. We invite you to come always stand and sing this song.


Transcribed by https://otter.ai