Conrad Harkrider  00:01
Good morning. If you want to open up your Bibles to Genesis chapter 22. When I was in high school, one of the hardest classes that I ever took was precalculus. I still don't understand how PreCalculus could be more difficult than calculus. But it was. And one of the things that we had to memorize during the class was this chart called the unit circle. Now, some of you look at that, and you actually get excited, you get giddy when you see all of those square root signs and pie and numbers. But for the rest of us what I like to call normal people. This brings back nightmares. It's horrible. But this is something that we had to learn. My teacher, Miss Montgomery, she was she was a good teacher, but she was tough. And in order for her to know, that we understood and had this knowledge, she had to test us. Now I wish she could have just asked a question, do you know your unit circle, and we could have responded with a yes or no, and that would have been the end of it. But of course, that's not the way it works in academics, you have to be able to prove there has to be some type of show that you understand that you can take these things that you have learned they are not just inside your head, but then you can apply them when you are tested. When tested, it gives a clear indication of where we stand. This morning, we're going to look at one of the greatest tests that was ever given. And we're going to think about this in light of our theme this year holding God's hand. I'd like for us to study and look at the story of Abraham, and Isaac. And what we'll see is that when Abraham was asked to do something that was almost unthinkable, we see that he was able to face that test, because he was holding to God's hand. Read with me in Genesis chapter 22, beginning in verse one. It says, Now it came to pass after these things that God tested Abraham. And he said to him, Abraham, and he said, Here I am. Then he said, Take now your son, your only son, Isaac, whom you love, and go to the land of Mariah and offer him there as a bird offering on one of the mountains of which I shall tell you. So Abraham rose early in the morning and stuck saddled his donkey and took two of his young men with him, and Isaac his son, and he split the wood for the burnt offering, and a rose and went to the place of which God had told him. Then on the third day, Abraham lifted his eyes and saw the place so far off. And Abraham said to his young men, stay here with the donkey, the lad and I will go yonder, and worship, and we will come back to you. So Abraham took the wood of the burnt offering and laid it on his son on Isaac his son, and he took the fire in his hand and a knife, and the two of them went together. But Isaac spoke to Abraham his father and said, My Father, and he said, Here I am my son. Then he said, Look, the fire and the wood, but where is the lamb for a burnt offering? And Abraham said, My son, God will provide for himself, the lamb for a burnt offering. So the two of them went together. Then they came to the place which God had told him and Abraham built an altar there and place the wood in order. And he bound Isaac his son and laid him on the altar upon the wood. And Abraham stretched out his hand and took the knife to slay his son. But the angel of the Lord called him from heaven and said, Abraham, Abraham. So he said, Here I am. And he said, Do not lay your hand on the lad, or do anything to him. For now, I know that you fear God, since you have not withheld your son, your only son from me. Then Abraham lifted his eyes and looked and there behind him was a ram, caught in a thicket by its horns So Abraham went and took the ram and offered it up for a burnt offering instead of his son. And Abraham called the name of the place the Lord will provide. As it is said to this day in the mount of the Lord, it shall be provided. Notice right off the bat, in verse one, the narrator says that the Lord tested Abraham. As we read through the details of this account, and we consider all that Abraham is being asked to do we understand that this is just a test, that God is placing Abraham in a situation to see how he will respond. But Abraham didn't know this. Abraham is not aware to all of the circumstances and the details and how all this is going to play out. Similar to Job Abraham doesn't see behind the curtain to know all that's happening in the background as to why this is going on. And that brings us to our first lesson from this account, which is that holding God's hand means that we display trust, we trust Him. Abraham is told to do something that is almost inconceivable to offer his son as a burnt offering before the Lord. Notice verse two, the emphasis that is given here, Genesis 22, and verse two. He says, Take now your son, your only son, Isaac, whom you love, and go to the land of Moriah, and offer him there as a burnt offering. It's almost like the writer is just drawing this out for emphasis. He is your son, your only son, whom you love. Isaac, of course, was not Abraham's only son. If you remember back in the timeline of Abraham's life in Genesis, chapter 12, Abraham was 75 years old when God called him to leave his homeland. And at that time, God made a promise to him, he said that I am going to make of you a great nation. But 10 years after that promise, there was still no children for Abram, and Sarai, and in order to have a nation come from you, you have to have children and offspring, so they decide to come up with an alternate plan. Sarah takes her handmade Hagar, and gives her to Abraham as a wife, and at 86 years old, Ishmael is born. Well, when Abraham is 99, and Ishmael is 13, the Lord comes to him again to reaffirm the covenant, to tell him that the promise is still going to come and that it will not be through Ishmael that this is fulfilled, but Sarah will bear a son. And sure enough, when Abraham is 100 years old, and Sarah is 90, Isaac is born, it's never too late to start thinking about starting that family. But Abraham and his wife have waited 25 years for this son, against all odds, against all human possibility. They have been blessed with this baby boy. In Genesis 22, and verse two, in the ESV, and the New King James, it says, Take your son whom you love, this is the first time the word love is used in the in our English translations. It's the first time it's used in the Bible. This parental love is not very common in the book of Genesis, it is mentioned in chapter 37, in reference to Israel and Joseph when it says that Israel loved Joseph, more than all of his other children, not exactly not exactly the model example of parental love. But here in Genesis 22, this is the Lord speaking. And he reminds Abraham or emphasizes to Abraham that this is the Son whom you love. child sacrifice was not unheard of. It was not even uncommon during this time. Many religions and practices in the ancient Near East worshipped gods of fertility, whether it was the God that provided animals or harvest or even children. And part of that worship was to give back to sacrifice some of the produce that presumably those gods had allowed you to have to give that back to them, so that there would be more blessing and abundance. In other words, if you want to have more children, then you need to offer one of them up to these gods. Of course, the Scriptures are clear on this topic. Deuteronomy and Leviticus both expressly prohibit child sacrifice and even the prophets Jeremiah speaks against this as well. But perhaps Abraham is thinking that the Lord is asking him to do something that is similar to what was already being done by those around him those who were serving their false gods. What we see in Abraham is this incredible amount of trust, and faith. Previously in Abraham's life, he found himself in difficult situations where he tried to work things out on his own, he he wanted to come up with his own solution, to make things work in his favor. On multiple occasions, he lied about his wife, Sarah being his sister, he tried to produce an air through someone else besides his wife. But in Genesis 22, when we come to this point in his life, Abraham realizes that there, there are no shortcuts. There's no substitutes, interesting, and obeying God, he has learned to put his trust in the Lord. Is God ever asked us to do something that that doesn't seem to make very much sense? Does God ever ask us to do something that might seem too hard or maybe even extreme? Jesus said, we are to love our neighbor as ourselves. Now, which neighbor are you talking about the ones on the left side of the house or the right side of the house? Because there's kind of a difference between those two. But no, he said, to love your neighbor. We're here to treat all people with love, and respect. And that goes back to trust, trusting that God's ways are best that they are higher than our ways. In regards to salvation. The Lord has said that in order to have our sins forgiven, we have to be baptized, we have to be immersed in water. from a human perspective, that doesn't really make a lot of sense. There's nothing special, there's nothing spiritual or supernatural about a body of water. So what's the point? Why do we have to do that? Trusting God holding God's hand means we follow what he's told us to do, even when we may not understand every aspect of it every detail. We still follow him because we know His ways are best from our reading. This morning and Proverbs chapter three and verse five. It says, Trust in the Lord with all your heart and do not lean on your own understanding, in all your ways acknowledge Him and He will make straight your paths. The writer of Proverbs says to not lean to not rely to not depend on your own understanding. And certainly if Abraham would have trusted in his own thoughts and ideas and understanding of, of how this would make sense he wouldn't have gone through with it. He wouldn't have passed the test. But instead, our trust needs to be in the Lord. No matter what he asks us to do or where He sends us. We have to keep our eyes fixed on him. Holding God's hand means not only that we trust him. But it also means that we show obedience. Notice verse three, all of the action words that are used. It says that He rose early, saddled the donkey took his servants cut the wood, he arose and went to the place after receiving this instruction from the Lord Abraham doesn't waste any time. I can remember when we were kids, and the afternoon would be wearing on and it'd be time for dinner mom would come out to call us into the house. And we would say well just let us ride down the hill one more time. We'd go up to the top of the hill and come flying down and would be waiting out there on the porch and she would say it's time to come in. And we would say we left our water bottles at the top of the hill, we need to go back and get them. And so we'd go back up. And we're just finding all kinds of excuses things to delay so that we could stay out. Surely there were chores that Abraham needed to take care of, or of all the days, maybe he could sleep in and rest a little more. But instead, we see that he gets up early in the morning. He makes the provisions he gathers His servants, he cuts the wood. It takes all the necessary provisions. And we see that in holding God's hand Abraham is led to obedience. Obedience requires an active response. It also requires putting forth effort. Notice verse four. It says, Then on the third day, Abraham lifted up his eyes and saw the place of far off. The Lord doesn't just tell Abraham to go into his backyard and offer up a sacrifice. He's traveled now for three days. And yet he's still a far off, he's still looking to the place that he's going. Abraham has been told to go to the land of Moriah. At this time, Abraham is living in Beersheba on the southern parts of the land of Canaan. And he's told to travel up to Mount Moriah, what we understand to be what would ultimately become the city of Jerusalem. In Second Chronicles, chapter three and verse one, it tells us that Solomon built the temple on Mount Moriah, the same place that the Lord had appeared to his father, David, but this would have been a trek, a journey. A difficult road for Abraham and his son would have taken them about 20 hours on foot, to get their obedience. Obedience when it's right in front of us obedience when it's in my best interest, obedience, when it's convenient, but how many of us are signing up to travel 20 hours on foot, not to receive some type of great reward or to be honored with a celebration but to sacrifice our only son. Obedience means serving God when it requires great time, and effort. We see other people have faith in the scriptures, Noah was told to build an ark, not something that had ever been done before, not something that could be done in a few days or even weeks, but decades of work, were required to follow God's Word. In our lifetime, we probably won't be asked to build a massive, enormous ship, or to offer up one of our children. But God still requires our obedience, he still calls us to listen and to follow His Word, He tells us to meet with other Christians to be a part of a body of believers. Not just every now and then occasionally, but week after week, month after month, year after year, regardless of what's going on in our lives, whether we're facing great prosperity and success or if there's some type of adversity. Obedience means doing the right thing consistently, following what God has told us. Holding God's hand means that we trust him. It means that we show obedience. And it also means that we are willing to sacrifice. In verse five, Abraham says something that is very interesting. Verse five, it says, And Abraham said to the young men, stay here with the donkey, the lad and I will go yonder, and worship and we will come back to you. We will go and worship and then we will return to you. What was Abraham, saying? When he said this? What did he mean by this? Well, there's several possibilities. We will return to you. Perhaps he was trying to conceal or hide what was about to take place. He didn't want to just come out and say that I'm going over there to sacrifice Isaac, and then I'll come back by myself. Maybe the servants would try to prevent him from doing that. So maybe he's trying to hide what's about to happen. Perhaps he is prophesying unaware. He doesn't even realize that yes, he and his son will return. And this is a prophecy being spoken of similar to what was said by Caiaphas and John 1151. As the high priest, he said that Jesus would die for the nation. He didn't even know that that's what was about to take place. Or perhaps Abraham is expressing a statement of hope. Maybe aber maybe what Abraham is saying, here is, is what he hopes will happen that he and Isaac will come back together. Or maybe this is just a confused utterance. Maybe he didn't really know what he was saying in this moment. But there's another possible explanation for why Abraham says this, and were given some insight in Hebrews chapter 11. And verse 18, when it says, of whom it was said, through Isaac shall your offspring be named, he considered that God was able even to raise him from the dead, from which figuratively speaking, he did receive him back. The writer and Hebrews tells us that Abraham believed he had faith that God was going to bless him that his promise was going to be fulfilled through Isaac. And so maybe when Abraham says that I and the land will return to you this is a profession of faith. That he believes that even if it takes a resurrection, God will bring him and his son back. Have you ever thought about how old Isaac must have been here? Verse five, calls him a boy in the ESV, or a lad in the New King James. And that word is used in other places in Scripture, and it has a wide range in terms of who it's referring to in First Samuel chapter one and verse 24. That word lad or boy refers to Samuel, when he was taken to the tabernacle, right after his mother, Hannah had weaned him probably four or five years old. But it's also used in Second Samuel 14 In verse 21, to refer to Absalom, who was a grown man who had wives and children. But it says that he was a young man. So that's quite a range there. But there are some clues from the account in Genesis 22, that show us that Isaac was probably a teenager, somewhere between 18 and 25 years old. Of course, the trip, a three days journey, 20 hours of walking would have been difficult for a four or five year old to make. And in verse six, Isaac is strong enough to carry the wood up the mountain for the sacrifice that was about to be made. So why does all that matter? Well, this is an 18 to 25 year old young man who is going with his Cinterion father, his father, who was over 100 years old, to offer a sacrifice. Wouldn't it have been possible for this young man to, to run away, to fight back to resist to overpower his father, I think this speaks to the faith and the trust that Isaac had to go through with this. In verse seven, there's this intense moment, as Isaac and Abraham travel on together. Isaac is starting to get a little suspicious, a little uneasy about what's going on here. And he asks his father in verse seven, he says, Father, we have the fire, and we have the wood. But where's the lamb? Where's the lamb for the burnt offering? It's interesting to note that the only recorded conversation between Abraham and Isaac the only words that are recorded for us that they spoke to one another, are here in Genesis 22 And verse seven. Where is the Lamb? When I was in college, my parents had this amazing dog. His name was Dante they had named him after a baseball player. And he was a boxer. My parents would literally take him wherever they when dad took him to the office every day. He was contagious to lay there on the floor with his chin, right next to Dad's chair. When Dante got sick, they decided to put him to sleep. And after my dad went to the vet's office, he called me and he said the hardest thing about it was when Dante was looking back at him, as they carried him into the back. Can you imagine how Abraham's soul was Pierce how his spirit felt this deep pain as he looked into his son's eyes? And tried to come up with the words to answer this question. Where is the Lamb holding God's hand means sacrifice. In our service to God, all of us will be asked to make a sacrifice to give up something of value. To give up something that is of importance to us in Matthew chapter 10, and verse 37, Jesus said, Whoever loves father or mother more than Me is not worthy of me. And whoever loves son or daughter more than Me is not worthy of me. Our commitment, our devotion to Christ may require us to give up a relationship to give up a connection with a person that is very close to us that we care about the most. But God asks us to sacrifice is there anything in your life? Is there anything in my life, that if asked by the Lord, we would be unwilling to offer it up. As our brother norm highlighted in his Monday message this week, the measure of anything's worth is to imagine yourself without it. When Abraham had to choose between his relationship with his son, and all that was involved with that the fulfillment of the promises, to have a name to be recognized to be the father of many nations, when he had to choose between that and his relationship with the Lord, whether to serve and obey the Lord, he chose the Lord. His connection to God was more important to him than anything else in the world, because he realized that the Lord offered greater blessings. And so when thinking about our life, are we willing to sacrifice Are we willing to give up? Whatever it is that God requires of this so that we can be humble servants in his kingdom. Holding God's hand means that we trust him. It means that we display obedience. It means that we sacrifice and finally, that we respect and fear Him. Abraham binds his son, ties him up with ropes, places him on the altar, takes his knife and is about to slaughter him. And in verse 11, it says, but the angel of the Lord called him from heaven, and said, Abraham, Abraham, so he said, Here I am. And he said, Do not lay your hand on the land or do anything to him for now, I know that you fear God. Now, I know that you fear God, Abraham's faith was not just one of theory, or theological discussion or something that he had read about in a book or heard about from his parents. But this was a proven faith. One that honored and respected God's word. It was a faith that moved him to action, to follow through. Abraham's faith allowed him to be moldable, to bend his will and submit his will to the Lord. A moldable faith is one that says, Lord, I'm not sure what's going on here. I don't know how this is going to work out. I don't know what you have planned in this moment, but I will continue to follow you. When Jesus was in the garden, he prayed to the Father and He said, I don't want this to happen. I don't want to go through with With this, he said, let this cup pass from me. Jesus was not looking forward, he was not desiring to suffer on the cross, but because he feared God, because he respected his father, he said, nevertheless, not my will, but yours, be done. Really what it comes down to is choosing to do God's will, instead of our own. And that's a choice that has to be made on a daily basis, the way that we treat other people, the way that we talk about other people, the way that we interact with others, how we spend our time, how we spend our resources, our money, how are we using the talents and blessings that God has given to us Abraham was not a perfect man. His failings and shortcomings are clearly documented in the scriptures. But he is the father of faith. Because when faced with this incredible test, he showed fear and respect for the Lord. In Acts chapter 10, and verse 34. It says, So Peter opened his mouth and said, Truly I understand that God shows no partiality. But in every nation, anyone who fears him and does what is right is acceptable to him. Doesn't matter where you're from, what your background is, what's happened in your life in the past, those who fear the Lord will be accepted by him. What's amazing about this story about this account, is that God the Father will not ask anything of us that he himself is not willing to do. As you know, the story concludes, Abraham finds a ram Isaac's life is preserved and the RAM is offered in his place. But when God said his only son to the earth, Jesus was not spared from the hands of evil men, he went through with his suffering and was sacrificed on a cross and God gave His Son so that we could have a relationship with him. We're going to close this morning with a song of encouragement. If you're not a child of God, if you're not one of Jesus's disciples, we want to encourage you to take that step this morning. By submitting your life to Him repenting of your sins and being baptized. You can become one of his children if there's something that we can do to help or you to help you or encourage you in your walk. Please come down to the front as we stand and sing


Transcribed by https://otter.ai