Good morning. If you want to open your Bibles up to Proverbs The Third Chapter How do you know if you can trust somebody, we took a road trip to Texas recently, it's about a 12 hour drive to get down to where my parents live. And while we were traveling, the check engine light came on. I know how to handle that you just put a little air in the tire and then that problem goes away. But the next day it came on again. And so we took it over to the tire shop and the associate came out to look at the vehicle. And instead of looking at just the one tire that was a little low, he walked around the entire car. And 20 minutes later, I was standing inside the shop, getting a quote for four brand new tires. And I was trying to figure out how I went from just a small patch that may have been five or $10, or maybe even free to now spending several $100 for a new set of wheels. Has that ever happened to you? With a salesman or somebody who's trying to get you to buy into something and you ask yourself the question, is this a person that I can trust? Are they telling me something that is real? This year, our theme at Broadmoor for 2021 has been holding God's hand. And that certainly has been a relevant theme. Our world has been turned upside down and there has been an ever present need to be reminded of our connection, our relationship with God, our dependence on him the need to turn to Him. But this morning, I'd like for us to think about this idea that we can hold God's hand because he is one that we can trust. Trust is defined as the assured reliance on the character ability or strength of someone or something, to rely on something to count on it. If you trust someone, you are depending on them because you know that they are capable. They are able to support you and help you so where do we place our trust? The Bible provides a number of warnings about misguided trust about trusting in the wrong things. And that's where I'd like to start this morning from the book of Proverbs and look at a few misguided trusts. Look with me in Proverbs chapter three and verse five. Proverbs three and verse five, it says, Trust in the Lord with all your heart, and lean not on your own understanding. In all your ways acknowledge Him and He shall direct your paths. The writer says, Do not lean on your own understanding we have a tendency to trust our selves. to lean on to depend to rely on our own understanding. When I think about leaning on something, I picture a ladder. Maybe you have a small step stool in the closet that you get out when you need to reach something on a high shelf. But what about that ladder that's leaned up against the side of the house? Do you trust your weight on it? What if it has a crack? What if it's wobbling? What if it's being blown by the wind? Would you put your weight on top of that? When we trust in our own thoughts, our own perspectives, our preferences for how we should live in this life? It's like climbing up on that rickety old ladder. It's unstable Something that could fail us at any moment. We don't know the best course for how to order our steps. Because our perspective is limited, we're frail, we're just human. But when we acknowledge the Lord, as the writer here says he can direct our paths. Look at what Solomon says about sons in Proverbs chapter 13. And verse one. He says, A wise son hears his father's instruction. But a scoffer does not listen to review. I was the type of kid that had to learn for myself. Mom would say, don't touch that because it's hot. And I'd be over there at the stove. And I would just be touching it a little bit. Just tap it, see what it was like? How often when we're young do we think? Well, mom and dad don't really know what they're talking about. They don't understand what I'm going through. But as we get older, we realize that being an adult is not such an easy game to play. And maybe dad did know a thing or two about what he was telling us. Solomon reminds his readers that parents are a blessing from God, their instructions, their rules, are meant to keep us safe and A wise son is one that listens, and he needs his father's instruction. Proverbs 28 And verse 26, says whoever trusts in his own mind is a fool. But he who walks in wisdom will be delivered you remember the rich fool in Luke chapter 12. He has a little conversation with himself after seeing his prosperity. He says soul, you have many goods, laid up for yourself for many years, eat, drink, and be married. He was relying on or trusting in his own thoughts about what he should do for the future. He thought everything was going to be great, but God says, This night your life will be required of you. Trusting in ourselves is a path that will lead to difficulty we can also place our trust in riches and wealth in Proverbs chapter 11. Proverbs chapter 11 And verse 28. Turn with me there proverbs 11 And verse 28. Proverbs 11, in verse 28, it says, He who trusts in riches will fail, but the righteous will flourish. Like foilage. He who trusts in riches from the world's perspective, that doesn't make a whole lot of sense, because wealth provides security, it offers stability, it gives opportunity, the wealthy are protected, they have a roof over their heads, they have enough food to eat. They don't have to worry about where their whether or not they're going to be provided for. By the way, if you're living in this country, by the world standard, you are wealthy, but he says that those who trust or hope and their money will be brought down. In Proverbs chapter 23. And verse four, it says, Do not overwork to be rich, because of your own understanding. CeCe will you set your eyes on that which is not for riches certainly make themselves wings, they fly away, like an eagle toward heaven. Riches fly away, like an eagle. Think about a child who lets go of that red balloon. Slowly it just drifts off until it disappears money is so uncertain. One year we have it the next year, we don't and even if we have saved and saved and saved what happens when that terminal diagnosis comes in? That money is going to someone else because we can't take it with us building our life upon something that is so transient so fluid. It never satisfies it makes us promises but it can't fulfill our greatest need. There is emptiness in trusting in wealth. And we also might look to our own security. Look at Proverbs chapter two. 21 And verse 22, Proverbs 21 And verse 22. It says, A wise man scales the city of the mighty, and brings down the trusted stronghold. In ancient times people found comfort and protection inside the walls of a city. If you were in the stronghold, you felt safe. You felt that you cannot be harmed by your enemies? What is it that is our stronghold today? Where do we look for security, maybe it's in our country, we live in the United States, we have freedoms, we're in the most prosperous nation in the world, we have the largest military and those things will never change, will they? We find security in where we live, or what about in a job, as long as I work in this field or for this company, then I will be provided for that I'll have a good paycheck, I feel safe. That's something that I can hold on to. Or maybe it's a relationship, this person gives me a sense of belonging. And I have my fulfillment in them, but as the writer here, and Proverbs says, There is no wall that is too high, that can't be pulled down. When we think about our security, we need to remember what Solomon said in Ecclesiastes that life is unpredictable. That like a bird that is caught in a snare, or a fish in a net. We live in an uncertain world, we often think that life will just continue on the way it is right now that things will just progress the way they always have for us. But the problem with that is we don't know what tomorrow holds. We don't know what's up ahead. So if we place our our hopes in the things here, and then they suddenly change, where does that leave us? So if we can't rely on ourselves, if we can't rely on our financial stability, if we can't rely on other places of security, like our nation, or our job or our family, then where does that leave us? What are we supposed to do? How can we go forward? I like to look now at the writings of John from the New Testament about the character of God and the character of Jesus. Notice what he says in John chapter six, and verse 66. John chapter six, and verse 66. It says, After this, many of His disciples turned back and no longer walked with him. So Jesus said to the 12, do you want to go away as well? Simon Peter answered him, Lord, to whom shall we go, you have the words of eternal life. And we have believed and have come to know that you are the Holy One of God. We see, first of all, that we can trust the Lord that we can hold to his hand because he gives us words of eternal life. Here in John chapter six, after hearing some very challenging words of Jesus, it says in verse 66, that many of His disciples, many of His disciples, not his critics, not as adversaries or as enemies, that are turning away, but these are his followers, his supporters, many of the people who initially had decided to follow him. But now they say, this isn't for me. This isn't what I signed up for. And so when Jesus asked the 12, he says, Do you want to leave as well? Peter says, Where else can we go? Whom else can we turn to You have the words of eternal life? Peter says, we've come to believe and know that you are sent from God that you are from God. He has the words of eternal life. Think about it. Why do we do the things that we do? Why do we live different from the world? Why do we give up our time, our energy, our money? Why do we do things that are hard to serve other people forgive when it's difficult because we have found the words of eternal life, that phrase eternal life is used 25 times in the gospels 2517 of those are in the Gospel of John. He uses ETERNAL LIFE another six time, six times in his first epistle in first, John. But it's a theme that comes up over and over again, in John's writings, I think one of the reasons for that is that we need to be reminded, in a world that is so focused on here and now and what happens to us in this world, Jesus is offering us something that is far greater. There's an organization here in Nashville called Crimestoppers, and they offer cash rewards for callers, who call in and offer information that will help law enforcement to be able to solve a crime. And you call this number and you talk to someone and if the details that you provide lead to solving that case, they will give you money up to $1,000, for offering that info. What if instead of providing a tip, all you had to do was to call into that number? And they would write you a check? And imagine if it wasn't just for $1,000. But what if it was 10,000? Or $100,000? Are you calling into that number? Are you telling your family about this hotline? You might even say I'm not going to work on Monday, I'm I'm calling into the cache hotline, I mean this this demands my attention. This is so valuable. What they are offering is so great that it demands my attention. Jesus is offering ETERNAL LIFE, He gives us the opportunity to be raised up forever, and to live with him. And the most amazing part about this free gift. The most amazing part about this is that it is a free gift. He doesn't ask us to pay or give him anything. He offers it freely. And John chapter three. And verse 16, says, For God so loved the world that He gave His only Son that whoever believes in Him should not perish, but have eternal life, a familiar verse to us. But notice what he says, Who ever believes in him. This is offered to anyone, to anyone who believes who trust who is willing to hold to God's hand, they will receive eternal life. No one has what Jesus can offer. No one can give us what he is extending to all people. And that's why Peter says, Where else can we go? Who else can we turn to You have the words of eternal life, we can also hold to his hand and trust Him, because Jesus is the one that guides our path. In John chapter eight and verse 12. It says again, Jesus spoke to them saying, I in the light of the world, Whoever follows me will not walk in darkness but will have the light of life. Jesus enlightens our way. He is the light of the world. He provides us with direction and guidance. And as Isaiah chapter nine, there was a prophecy made about Jesus, it said that he would go to Galilee of the Gentiles and that the people who were walking in darkness would see a great light. How do we know how to walk in this world? How do we know how to live our lives in First John chapter five. In verse three, John writes, For this as the love of God, that we keep his commandments, and His commandments are not burdensome. His commandments are not a burden. They don't weigh us down. They don't hold us back or hurt us. But instead they give us that guidance, and support. God knows exactly how we think. He knows how we were made. He knows what our needs are. He knows what our greatest desire is. And so he can show us the best path forward. I went to the hardware store one time and I asked one of the associates to give me some help. I was looking for a water hose. Why Some random item among the millions that they have in the store. And he said it's in aisles, z 74. So I started walking around trying to find aisles, z 74. And I finally got there. And I'm looking at all the shelves, and they didn't have what I needed, or at least I couldn't find it. So I went to another hardware store. And I walked in again, and I told the associate, I'm looking for a water hose washer. And he said, Come with me. I'll show you where to find it. And he walked me right over to where it was, and he helped me pick it out. Which one is more helpful? Jesus is the savior who doesn't just point the way and say, Go live your life, figure it out. But instead, he came to the earth. He lived as a man, he experienced all of the things that we go through. He knows what it's like to face, temptation, rejection, and despair. He knows what it's like to feel anxiety and fear. And yet he walks beside us every step of the way. Jesus teaching is not just so we can inherit eternal life in the age to come. But his word right now gives us rich blessings in our present life. When we walk by the things that he has said, It blesses us now. The world says to get even, but Jesus says to forgive, the world says to get drunk, but Jesus says, Be filled with the Spirit. The world says, How much do you have? But Jesus says, How much do you give? The world says, Be crazy. Jesus says, Be committed. Jesus came to give us John 10, abundant life, one that is filled with peace and contentment. We can hold the God's hand and trust Him. Because He speaks the truth to us. He tells us the truth. In John chapter eight and verse 31. It says, So Jesus said to the Jews, who had believed in him, If you abide in my word, you are truly my disciples, and you will know the truth. And the truth will set you free. Jesus says that in order to be one of his disciples, we have to abide in His word and to do that. And when we do that, we will know the truth, how important is truth? How critical is truth for a relationship? We live in a world where it's hard to tell who's speaking the truth. People say one thing this month, and then a few months later, they're saying the exact opposite. And all this flip flopping back and forth. We don't know what to think. But when it comes to a relationship, how can you rely on someone if they don't tell you the truth? There was one afternoon when I was younger, that I'd come in from outside. And my brother was in the kitchen, and I asked him if he could give me a glass of water. And he brought me a cup and I was very overheated, I started to take a few swigs, and immediately I knew there was something wrong. And I spit it out. And I said, What is this? He had put salt in the bottom of the cup, and then filled it up with water. It was several years before I would take any food or drink that my brother had had access to. Truth is the foundation of any relationship. We have to know that this person is not hiding something from us, that they're going to say that they're going to do the things that they say they will. Jesus tells us the truth. He came to tell us about God. He doesn't always tell us the things that are easy or the things that we want to hear. But instead he tells us what we need to hear what's most helpful to us. In Mark chapter 10 And verse 21. It says that Jesus looked at this rich young man and he loved him. He told him just what he needed to hear. Jesus helps us to see What could cause us harm or damage, he wants what's best for us. And we know that we can hold on to him in every circumstance, because he gives us that truth. Finally, we can hold on to God's hand and trust him. Because he's coming back for us. In John chapter 14, and verse one, it says, Let not your hearts be troubled, believe in God, believe also in Me, In my Father's house are many rooms, if it were not, so what I have told you that I go to prepare a place for you. And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again and will take you to myself, that where I am, you may be also Jesus makes this incredible promise to his disciples and to all of us. He has gone away to prepare a place for us. He says that in his father's house, there are many rooms, what an amazing picture. We're not going to live far off from the Father, down the road or in another part of the country. And we'll see him every now and then. But we will dwell in His house, we will live in His presence. Notice Jesus doesn't say that. When you get here, I'll show you around. But instead he says, I am coming back. I am going to come and get you and bring you to be with me forever. He will come back for us. We were walking into services recently. And I was heading towards the door to come inside. And my youngest, he said, Daddy, wait. So I walked back over to where he was. And he said, Will you carry me. And I didn't feel like carrying him. I was tired. And I tried to negotiate. I said, you know, you're getting too big for daddy to carry you and you're wearing your backpack. So that's an extra 15 pounds. He said Daddy is okay. You're really strong. So I picked him I couldn't say no to that I picked him up and brought him in. Our God will never leave us or forsake us. He's aware of everything that every person in this room is going through. He knows the difficulties that we face. But he's going to continue to hold our hand and be faithful. He's greater than all of our fears and struggles. He is really strong. And as we keep our hearts set on him, he'll keep his promises. And we can look up as Jim said to the clouds and know that one day he's coming back for us. He will never break his word we can hold to his hand because he is one that we can trust. We're gonna close this morning with a song. And we want to encourage all who are here to think about their relationship with God. If you're not a Christian, you can't call him father in the same way. You're not connected to him. Why not take this opportunity to submit your life to Christ and to be baptized to start that walk. There's something that we can do to help or support you. Please come down to the front as we stand in scene


Transcribed by https://otter.ai