Good morning, it's good to see everyone here. Miss Betty's bringing us along even though she's not here, I occasionally hear more and more good mornings. It's so good to see you. We we've actually been out a little bit. This was the first Sunday morning, I've been in Kevin's class. And I'm reminded why I just love being here. I was so encouraged by by the class. It was the very opposite of a cold and sterile and violent environment. It was a place of discipleship and warmth and people earnestly seeking to please God. And so I will start off with a thank you to each one of you. I'm just happy to be here and happy to worship with you. When I think of a couple, I think a beautiful picture about a couple is when I see them holding hands holding hands, I, in my mind, I see a lifelong event. So maybe like a movie is it's going through different scenes of events where a couple holds hands, they hold hands when they're dating, when they are just finding out about each other when they're so excited to be together. They hold hands on their wedding day, as they look in each other's eyes. And they make vows commitments that they will be devoted to each other. They hold hands as they start their marriage in the early parts of their marriage. They hold hands when they find out that they're pregnant, unable to have a baby. They hold hands. And sometimes that hand is squeeze when the delivery comes. It's a time of excitement. And then they get to hold a finger. Their hand holds a little child's hand. And I see parents as they stroll through, they can hold each other's hands, but then they get to hold the hand of their child. I'm sure that happened a lot today, the one I saw coming in, I saw Conrad and Hudson as he was walking he was holding Hudson St. And I see a couple holding hands in times of sickness is that couple gets older, one may not be able to care for themselves and maybe at the bedside of the other and they can still hold their hand. I see all of these scenes. And what I see from all that is a picture of togetherness, of love of unity, I see a picture of of love. Well, this year, we have been talking about holding God's hand. And I think there's a similar image there. As we hold God's hand. It is a picture of love. It's a picture of unity. It's a picture of comfort. It's a picture of home. And so I'd like to talk for just a few moments this morning about holding God's hand. And I want to focus on the theme of holding God's hand in fellowship and fellowship. When we hold God's hand when we seek God's hand and his faith, we can be one with Him, we can have fellowship with Him. And that is an amazing thought that we can have fellowship with God. I'd like to look at a passage in Zephaniah chapter three. And these are the last few verses of the book and Zephaniah. Zephaniah prophesies about 627 625. So it's that the end of the seventh century. And this was a time really toward the end of the existence of Judah as a nation alone, pretty soon they are going to head into captivity. And this was in the days of Josiah. One of the major themes of Zephaniah is the day of the Lord. The Lord will come on a day of judgment, that day of judgment will be simultaneously two things for two different groups. It will be a day of judgment for those who rebel against God. But it will be a day of relief for those that are oppressed. And so we see that Zephaniah announces this day of the Lord, the day of the Lord will come. The day of the Lord will come. Zephaniah talks about this day all throughout. In fact, he's not wanting to beat around the bush, we find that he's going to prophesy during the days of Josiah and so Josiah is going to institute some of those last reforms for for Judah. But even as he does that it appears that there's some trouble before that that leads to those reforms. In fact, Zephaniah may be before those reforms and looking forward to that, because it's still quite a bit of condemnation, particularly against the city of Jerusalem. And I mentioned he does not beat around the bush in verse two, he starts off as prophecy with this, I will utterly sweep away everything from the face of the earth. This is a book of judgments. And he talks about that day of the Lord. He said, it's going to be a great day a day of wrath and distress, a day in which I will punish a day in which there will be weeping and mourning. At the end of the book, though, he ends with a statement of hope and restoration and this is common throughout the prophets as they spend a large portion of judgment, calling to repentance. And then they end with a statement of hope. Notice and Zephaniah three in verse 16. On that day, it shall be said to Jerusalem, fear not, O Zion. Let not your hands grow weak. The Lord your God is in your midst, a mighty one who will save, he will rejoice over you with gladness, he will quiet you by His love, He will exalt over you with loud singing, I will gather those of you who mourn for the festival so that you will no longer suffer reproach. Behold, at that time, I will deal with all your oppressors and I will save the lane and gather the outcast. I will change the shame and the praise and renown in all the earth. At that time, I will bring you in at the time when I gather you together, for I will make you renowned and praised among all the peoples of the earth when I restore your fortunes before your eyes, says the Lord. One of the reasons I picked this passage because I think it's a beautiful statement of fellowship with God. You see, sin is separating these people. And God says that you can be restored and have fellowship with me once again. In verse 17, he says this, The Lord God is in your midst, a mighty one who will say, he will rejoice over you with gladness, he will quiet you by His love, and He will exalt over you with loud singing. This is a place of home. This is a place of belonging. This is a place of fellowship and this fellowship can be had with God, we can hold God's hand in fellowship. Well, as we think about fellowship, I want you to know that God's desire is to have fellowship with you. That's what he wants. He wants that with every single person. There is no one left out from this desire, we first see this desire in the creation, God created us in such a way that we can have fellowship with Him. We're the pinnacle of his creation. We stand distinct and unique from the animals and that we can have fellowship with God. In Genesis one, verse 27, it says, So God created man, in his own image, in the image of God, He created him, male and female, He created them. God created us, He made us he designed us, so that we can have fellowship with Him. God was in the midst. I like that language from Zephaniah three, he was in the midst of the garden. And he shared shared fellowship with the people that he planted the garden for them, he provided for their needs, he gave them all the food that they needed. When Adam was found to be alone, he made the woman presented her, her to the man, we see that he did everything that he could for them. But in Genesis, chapter three, we see that the man or the woman sins, she believes the lie of Satan against God, that he is not there for their good, but he's actually trying to hold things back. He's trying to be selfish, and he's not doing things for their good. So it was a twisting of God, and a picture of God and they sinned. In Genesis three, in verse eight, it says this, and this is after the sin. And they heard the sound of the LORD God walking in the garden, the cool day, and the man of his wife hid themselves from the presence of the LORD God among the trees of the garden. Now, this scene has been played out time and time again, as the parent leaves the house and they come back. Normally when they come back, Mom's back, you know, they got lots of questions. Your dad's back. We got lots of family do this. We wanted to watch a show or we wanted to do this. Mom's back. But occasionally, there's a time when that doesn't happen. There's silence. Mom comes back and there's no one in the house. And there's Hi They don't want to come out. That sense of fellowship that was there is broken because they've done something wrong. And that's what we see here. This place of home and love and fellowship where they can hold hands and be together and rejoice in each other's presence is turned to a place of secrecy is turned to a place of loneliness, and it's self inflicted. You see, the man and woman separate themselves from God because they sinned. And so they hide from him. It's interesting, the hide behind the trees, the very thing that God had given them for their blessings. And so they hide, and they're ashamed. And they feel bad. stead of running to God and walking hand in hand with him, they hid. They hid God's desires not only to have fellowship with the first man and woman, but with all people. God wants to be one with us. But like Adam and Eve, our sin separates us from God. It causes us to hide from him. I love the picture in Leviticus 26 Is God is talking to the Israelites, there he states his intention, I will make my dwelling among you and my soul shall not bore you. And I will walk among you and will be your God and you shall be my people. I am the Lord your God who brought you out of the land of Egypt, that you shall not be their slaves, and I have broken the bars of your yoke and made you walk or wrecked. I will be in your midst, I will walk with you. This is the desire of God in the Garden, restated. You see people have been dealing with this problem of sin and separation since then, but God's desire has remained consistent. He wants to be in our midst. He says, and I will be your God and you shall be my people. This desire can be seen in the New Testament and passages like First Timothy two and verse four, which says that God wants all men, all people to be saying in Second Peter three, nine, God doesn't want anyone to perish says the flip side of that he doesn't want anyone to perish but for all to come to repentance. God's desire is that we would have fellowship with him. And he's able to make that happen. He is a God that loves us and cares for us. And when we look in Scripture, we see that God is mighty to say, mighty to say, and Zephaniah three in verse 17, it uses that language the Lord your God is in your midst, a mighty one who will say, when we talk about the hand of God, one of the major themes or images of the hand of God is that it is a mighty hand is a powerful hand. And it is mighty to save in Isaiah 63 Isaiah 63. In the first few verses there we see the language of one who is mighty to save as well. Notice an Isaiah 63 And verse one. Who is this who comes from Edom is crimsons garments from Boers. He was splendid in his apparel, marching in the greatness of his strength. It is I speaking in righteousness mighty to say, Why is your apparel red, and your garments like him, his who treads in the wine press. I've tried the wine press alone, and from the People's no one was with me. I tried them in my anger and trampled them in my wrath, Their life blood splattered on my garments and stained all my apparel. This is quite an amazing passage. I don't know if you read this, it kind of goes against our modern sensibilities. What do we see here, we see a blood stained warrior. And it is this blood stained warrior who is mighty to say, I don't personally see a lot of violence as Christians. That's not something we're to promote and be a part of this. Thankfully, in my society, that's not something that I see a lot of, we have a little neighborhood list and if there's a gunshot herd, you know, it goes out what happened here. It's rare, at least for me and what I've seen so our modern sensibilities kind of look away from this. We don't like to see a blood stained warrior. But I tell you what, I would think very differently if I was in a Nazi concentration camp with an eye to see a blood stain warrior who had not avoided the fight, but had come to liberate. I would think very differently and that's the picture you see here. You see God who is not a Avoiding the fight, who's not avoiding the battle, but is willing to fight to the death. And as we sang all the songs this morning, I noticed how much blood was mentioned. We after all, serve a bloodstains savior, don't we? Who was not willing to avoid the fight, but did what was required? Yes, our God is mighty, to say, mighty to say, we see that God. God is not only mighty to save, but He is mighty to sustain his strong enough to sustain us. And so when we are lost, he can bring us back in so that we can have fellowship once more. And when we struggle, he can sustain us, living a holy life and maintaining fellowship with God can be challenging, especially when we battle against our own will. When we battle against the sinful culture, and when we struggle through these things, but God is mighty to sustain us through these difficulties, challenges and temptations. In Psalm 55, in verse 22, Cast your burden on the Lord and He will sustain you, He will never permit the righteous to be moved. In first Peter five, six and seven, it states something very similar. And it's hard not to bring up this passage with this theme. Humble yourselves therefore under the mighty hand of God, so that the proper time he may exalt you, Casting all your anxieties on Him because He cares for you. Yes, God sustains us. And he does it in numerous ways. We could have a whole series of lessons and the ways that he does that. But God gives us strength through His Word. So we read and study and partake of His Word, God provides strength in prayer. The very act of praying, as was mentioned this morning, is a time of gaining strength of recognizing God's might. And we may even request from God that we would have strength and that he would give us strength for our difficulties. And I believe God hears this, and I believe that he provides. God provides strength through his church. I was encouraged as I came here this morning, I'm encouraged when I come here and assemble with the saints. And if I have a trouble or a problem, sometimes I'll call one of the fellow Christians here and say, I need this from you. I need help I need I need accountability I need this situation dealt with. And I have no doubt that anyone that I would call here and ask for help would provide it. God provides strength through his church. God provides strength through friends and family and God's strength is readily available, if we would but take advantage of it. In Proverbs three and verse five, it says, Trust in the Lord with all your heart and do not lean on your own understanding. In all your ways acknowledge Him and He will make straight your pass. Be not wise in your own eyes, fear the Lord and turn away from evil. It will be healing to your flesh and refreshment to your bones. Yes, God's strength is readily available, if will but take advantage of it, and not rely on ourselves. God is mighty to sustain us and his mind can certainly do that. God is mighty to forgive as well. God is mighty to forgive. Even though God has redeemed us from sin and sustains us through temptations, we still sometimes choose sin. We choose to take that poison into us. We choose what will harm us the most and cause us the most problems. And we willingly choose this. God is still eager and willing to forgive. His desire for fellowship is so strong that he is willing to forgive people that are stubborn and rebellious. He is willing to forgive those that have spurned his love. He is willing to forgive those that have turned their back on him. Yes, God is mighty to forgive. In Psalm 103, Psalm 103 And verse one. Psalm 103, in verse worn, Bless the Lord, oh my soul, and all that is within me, bless His holy name. Bless the Lord, oh my soul and forget not all His benefits, who forgives all your iniquity, who heals all your diseases Who redeems your life from the pit and crowns you with steadfast love and mercy who satisfies you with good so that your youth is renewed? Like the eagle's. Bless the Lord, praise the Lord. He is great and good and he has done so much for us. When someone in the world does something for us, it's customary. It's nice to say thank you. We cannot say thank you enough to God. The greater someone does, the greater thing someone does for us, the more we want to say thank you. So how can we even bring enough things? How can we express our hearts enough to say thank you to God praise his name. And verse eight, the passage continues this way. The Lord is merciful and gracious, slow to anger and abounding in steadfast love. He will not always shy nor will He keep His anger forever. He does not deal with us according to our sins, nor pay us according to our iniquities. For as high as the heavens are above the earth, so great as his steadfast love toward those who fear him. As far as the east is from the west, so far does he removed our transgressions from us, as a father shows compassion to his children. So the Lord shows compassion to those who fear Him, for He knows our frame, he remembers that we are but dust in a family, you have to forgive those in your family, we're going to do things against others, my mom had this cross stitch up in our house home is the place where you grumble the most and are treated the best. That's probably true, we let our true selves out. And sometimes that's a very sinful self, isn't it? So we have to as family, forgive and love and appreciate but here it is. God says that He does not judge us according to our sins are he does not hold our sins against us, I should say. The passage says that, that he treats us as a father showing compassion. He knows who we are. He knows that we sin. And his desire is to forgive us. He knows our frame. And he is merciful and gracious. He is a God of patience and love, and His character is fully manifest and how he deals with us. For us, sometimes we try to forgive but it's easy to lash back out and be vindictive, isn't it? God is not that way. He does not seek to punish. He's not eager to do that. He does not deal with us according to our sins, but He offers forgiveness. Notice his mighty power and forgiveness. As, as the heavens are high above the earth. That's the the size of his love for us. And that's not something that can be measured. It's so grand and so expansive. That is a picture of God's law. As far as the east is from the west, that's how far God has removed our sins from us. God is mighty to forgive, powerful enough to forgive, eager and willing to forgive. And he does that so that we might have fellowship together so that we might be one together. For all of God's might, I do want to tell you that God's might has a limitation. In some ways, it's hard to think about God's mind, it seems limitless and if that's true and his power and his ability, but he is limited himself in this way, He will not force us to have fellowship with Him. He will not force us to have fellowship, he will not violate our will in order to have fellowship as much as he desires fellowship with us, it will not be forced, we will either submit to His will in terms of fellowship, or he will submit to all meaning if we say we don't want to have fellowship with God, and we turn our back on on him. He'll submit to that desire, and he will allow us to choose the path of foolishness. In Isaiah 59, in verse one. Notice what it says in Isaiah 59 In verse one, Behold, the Lord's hand is not shortened, that it cannot say, or his ear doll that it cannot hear. But your iniquities have made a separation between you and your God and your sins have hidden His face from you so that he does not hear. If there is a problem when it comes to you and God in terms of fellowship, whose fault is that? It's not God's we talk about God's mighty hand. God is is doesn't have a weak hand. His hand is not short so that he can't reach out to you. The problem is with you. And you'll your willful sin. You're a fuse To turn to him, it is your sins that have created a barrier between you and God. The Bible says that all have sinned. So what is the difference between those who saves and though is he he does those who he say, are those who repent, that are sorry over their sins and reach out to God. But if we never do that, if we persist in our stubbornness and refuse to repent, then even God cannot save us. God has not shortened his hand is not short. His power to save is not in question God is not to blame. It is our sins. And I'm reminded that we repeat those same mistakes of Adam and Eve, don't we? We're a little children that need to hold the hand of our father, but we run in Ha. We run in hide. And even when we've done things wrong, we think that that is the problem. That's what's going to keep us from from him. But it really it's our stubborn will. What child has not done something wrong before their parents, but yet their parents are eager to hold them in their hands to hold their hands and to love them, to forgive them, to help them grow and be better. And that's God's desire for us. It's so sad that our sins are self inflicted, and our separation from God are hiding from God is self inflicted as well. When we look in Scripture, we see that there are certain things that can and certain things that cannot separate us from God. And Romans eight and verse 35, Who shall separate us from the love of Christ? Shall tribulation? or distress, or persecution or famine or nakedness? Or danger or sword? Think about that list. Is there any amount of of tribulation or distress? Is there any trouble that is two greats? That is so great that it separates us from God? Is there any famine or nakedness or danger? Is there any struggle? Sir, any army? Any sword that can separate us from God? And the answer is absolutely not. Yet we read in First John chapter one, verses five and six that God has lied in him is no darkness at all. If we say that we have fellowship with Him, while we walk in darkness, we lie and do not practice the truth, to live, to dwell, to take up residence in sin. And to turn our back on God is what breaks fellowship. And even if we say I'm a Christian, I believe in God. But we live that stubborn life of resistance, rebellion and refusal, our back is truly to him and how we live, then we do not have fellowship with Him. So John speaks of this willful shunning and rejection of God, and His will. In First John one, in verse nine, he says, If we confess our sins, He is faithful and just to forgive us our sins, and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. What God wants from us and demands from us as a humble heart, that will approach Him in humility, and dependence. And so we confess our sins, we don't run in hide. We confess them openly, and he will forgive us, and He will forgive us. I think the theme of holding God's hand is a powerful theme. And there's many ways that we can look at this, but I love the picture of a child holding his father's hand, and as a child of God, holding his father's hand, because we can rely upon him and he has done so much for us, in light of God's desire in his power to save in his power to save his power to sustain and forgive. My question for you is do you have fellowship with God? Do you have a relationship with Him? Are you in fellowship with the Father? If not, it's not God's fault. It's not his inability. It's not his lack of willingness. The reason is your sin. It is your sin that has separated you from God. But there's good news. That separation doesn't have to persist. It doesn't have to stay there. That's something that you can change today as far as your relationship with him because he is eager and willing to forgive you. If you'll simply believe that Jesus is the Christ, repent of your sins, confess Jesus as the Christ and be baptized in the water for forgiveness of sins. God says that He will forgive you and you can be His child as you start your Christian walk. If you will do that you can have fellowship with God this very day. If you're a Christian and you're not living as you should You've fallen back into sin you have turned your back on him. Make your heart soft again and come back to him. Do what is right and honor the commitment you made when you were baptize. If there any subject to the invitation please come as we stand in scene at this time


Transcribed by https://otter.ai