Conrad Harkrider  00:02
For all your promises are true. And I believe, amen. Thank you JD for leading us in those songs and what a blessing and a privilege it is to be together on this Lord's day, if you will, please open up your Bibles to First Thessalonians chapter five, First Thessalonians five. Recently, our family was playing a game together where we had to come up with a adjective to describe each person, just one word. And we made some ground rules that it had to be something positive. No one wants to be described as grouchy or irritable even though we at time can display those qualities but one word for each person in the family. Some of the qualities just rolled right off your tongue, organized, friendly, determined. Others we had to think a little more about helpful, kind, strong. If you had to think of one word to describe the Lord. What would it be? That question came up on our GroupMe message thread last year, the question was actually describe God's love with one word. And I was amazed to see all of the different responses that came back to that question. Unconditional, everlasting, steadfast, impartial, sacrificial, long suffering. Amazing. Gracious, constant, active patient. Awesome, perfect, redeeming, unfathomable, unfailing, enduring, forgiving, Jesus, compassionate, powerful, and beautiful. Those are all great answers. And we can look through the scriptures and we can see God's characteristics displayed in each of those ways. But the one that I want to focus on this morning is that one right there in the middle, and that is faithful, God's love, and God is faithful. Our theme for 2021 here at Broadmoor is holding God's hand. And we've been looking at various aspects of God's nature and thinking about this idea that we can trust God, that we can depend on Him. Because He is a loving and gracious God, but this morning, I want us to think about this aspect of God's nature we can hold to his hand because he is faithful. Look with me in First Thessalonians chapter five beginning in verse 23. It says, Now may the God of peace Himself sanctify you completely, and may your whole spirit, soul and body be preserved blameless at the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ? He who calls you is faithful, who will also do it? What does it mean to be faithful Paul concludes his letter to the Thessalonians. And he says that God is going to keep their soul and their spirits and their body that they are going to be preserved as blameless until the coming of the Lord Jesus Christ. God is going to watch over his people. And through his power, he's going to strengthen them and help them and keep them until the Lord returns. He'll preserve them from evil but notice what he says in verse 24. He is faithful. He is faithful he will show keep his word. By His very nature, God is faithful. He is dependable. He is loyal. He can be counted on we were talking with some friends recently who had visited one of the National Parks up in Yellowstone. And they were telling us about this very famous geyser. Old Faithful, is the most well known geyser in the world, it erupts on average about 20 times per day. And they're telling this story. And they started to laugh because one of them had to go back to the car and help with one of the kids and they missed the eruption 20 times a day, 365 days a year, and he didn't get to see it. But God is faithful, He is consistent. You can trust His Word. If he says something is going to happen, then we can count on it to come to pass. He is steadfast and unwavering in his promises. He does what He says He will do. Even when it seems like it may be impossible. As Paul says here, he will surely do it. In Exodus chapter three, Moses is out in the wilderness, he's been tending to the sheep for his father in law. And he comes up upon the mountain and he encounters a very strange sight. He sees this bush that is burning, but it's not being consumed. And as he steps forward, a voice begins to speak to him as the Lord and He says, I have surely seen the affliction of my people. I've heard their cries for help. And now I'm going to deliver them out of Egyptian bondage. And Moses's response to that, that he is going to be the one that brings the people out, he says, Who am I? Who am I, Lord? How can I be the one that does this? I'm just a fugitive among the Egyptians. I'm just an outcast among my people. How am I going to go back to Egypt and demand that the most powerful king in all the earth release these people? But God is faithful. He is reliable even when the situation seems completely hopeless? Well, there are a number of objections that have been raised over the centuries in regards to God's faithfulness. And one of those relates to this idea of time. It has been too long God has said that he would do something he promised to act in a certain way. But now, the days have turned into years. And we don't see a fulfillment of His Word in Second Peter chapter two and verse three, and Second Peter three and verse three, it says, Knowing this, first of all, that scoffers will come in the last days with scoffing, following their own sinful desires, they will say, Where is the promise of is coming? For Ever since the father's fell asleep? All things are continuing as they were from the beginning of creation, where is the Lord? Why hasn't he come yet alert Revelation says that he is near that he is standing at the door, he is knocking, but yet, he is still has not returned. Life just continues on as it always has. And so there's this idea that if something is, is taking a long time, then that that speaks against that's a counter to God's faithfulness when the Lord made the promise to Abraham in Genesis chapter 12. That he would bless his descendants that he would give his offspring the land. Abraham was 75 years old, with no children and no land. And after 20 years of waiting, Abraham still did not have a son he may have been thinking, Is God faithful? Will God be true to His promises? In his lifetime, Abraham never own great amounts of land, in Kanan. In fact, the only piece of property that he ever obtained or acquired was a burial plot for his wife Sarah, which He purchased with His own money for 400 pieces of silver from the Hittites, a place to bury his wife. It would be over 430 years before the descendants of Abraham, the children of Israel would come out of Egypt into the land of Canaan to inherit what God has promised but some charge that God is not faithful because look how much time has passed. What about trials? There's nothing like persecution or some type of great difficulty that can cause a person to question God's existence and his presence. David was no stranger to conflict, and to trouble after being anointed as God's king. He was a man that was on the run, he was continuously being chased by King Saul. His life was on the lion it was being threatened. And in Psalm chapter 13, in verse one, David writes, How long Oh Lord, will you forget me forever? How long will you hide your face from me? How long must I take counsel in my soul and have sorrow in my heart all the day? How long shall my enemy be exalted? over me? David asked this question, how long? How long will this be? Have you forgotten me? Have you turned your face aside? For me? It sure felt like it as David is living in caves as he's dwelling in the mountains. As he's going from place to place, it's far different from what he imagined when he was anointed as king, over God's people. How long when Jesus was dying on the cross, He raised up his voice. And he quoted from one of David's Psalms, Psalm 22. He said, My God, My God, why have you forsaken me? And David goes on to say on that Psalm, I cry out all day, but you do not answer by night. But I find no rest. When people are facing great difficulty and trial, they lift up their voices, they say, Does God even here? Does he know what we are going through? How can a faithful God allows such pain and hurt? There's also this idea of testing. Testing is when there is some objection, some argument that is presented, it makes us question there's doubts that arise in our hearts when Adam and Eve were in the garden. And the Lord told them that they could eat from any tree except for the one that was in the midst of the garden. They accepted that they believed what God had said. But after some time passed, the serpent came and he tested their thinking, he challenged Eve on that point, he said, did God tell you that you cannot eat from any of these trees? That sounds ridiculous. God's trying to hide something from you. God doesn't want you to become wise. He doesn't want you to be like him. And so he tested their faith. I think about Job and his friends. They had concluded that the only way that job could go through all that he was suffering was if he had done something utterly sinful. And they looked at his situation and what he was going through. And they begin to test his faith to test his belief in God, his wife even joined in and she said, why don't you just curse God and die? And that's in essence, she was saying, God hasn't been faithful to you. Why would you be faithful to Him? And there? They were testing job to his core. Well, with all of these objections, can we trust God to be faithful? Can we rely on him Can we hold to his hand and trust that he will not disappoint us? I want to look at Isaiah, chapter 40, a great text that speaks to God's incredible power. Turn with me to Isaiah 40. And notice what the Prophet says about God's nature, about his character in Isaiah chapter 40, in verse 28, Isaiah 45 Verse 28, it says, Have you not known Have you not heard the everlasting God the Lord the creator of the ends of the earth? Neither faints, nor is weary, his understanding is unsearchable. Our God is faithful and we can hold to his hand, because he is everlasting. God is eternal, there is no beginning and no end, he has always been in existence. And he will forever be the ruler over all of God's creation. It's difficult to wrap our minds around that concept, because we think in terms of time, we think about days and months and years we, we place ourselves in the decade in which we were born. But Second Peter, chapter three and verse eight says that with the Lord a Day is 1000 years and 1000 years is as one day. In other words, time has no bearing on God, whether it has been years and years, or a very short time, from God's vantage point, he sees things from a much different perspective, he's looking over all of human history, instead of just a single point in time. We recently had some work done at our house. And they went into the crawlspace. And they were digging out some trenches and trying to help with the water that we had down there. And after a couple of weeks, the job was completed. And they sent us a little certificate in the email and it said, lifetime warranty. Now, I know that's a good thing. It's better than 510 15 year warranty, but I still had some questions about that lifetime. Is that my lifetime? Is that the contractors lifetime? Is that the lifetime of the house? You know, in Tennessee, we have some old houses around here, over 200 years old. And I was thinking, imagine if the person living in this house tried to call them up in 150 years, and say that there's some water down there in the crawlspace. Would they even know where do they keep those records? Why would they even be in business? God is the only one who can keep his promises. And his word because he is everlasting. When Zachariah wrote about the king who would come into the city of Jerusalem, a humble King, mounted on a donkey, a colt, a young donkey. He said that he would bring salvation and righteousness to the people. You know, when Zachariah wrote that, over 500 years before Jesus was born, how could he possibly orchestrate that event? How could he know that the triumphal entry would happen and that it would be planned out the way it was with the people and the the animal that Jesus would be placed on and all of the things that came together? Only God who lives across the ages. He is the only one that we can put our trust in because he is everlasting. Also, notice verse 22, Isaiah 40 In verse 22, it says, It is He Who sits above the circle of the earth, and its inhabitants are like grasshoppers, who stretches out the heavens like a curtain who spreads them out like a tent to dwell in. God is faithful, verse 22, because he is transcendence. That's kind of a big word, but it simply it just means that he is out of this world that He is above or beyond the physical, the human experience. He's not subject to the material world the limitations that we face, as Isaiah says here, he sits above the heavens, he sits above the Earth, the inhabitants of the earth are like tiny grasshoppers. You think about all the limitations that we face on this earth. What happens if you don't drink water for an extended period of time? It doesn't take too long before you start to get dehydrated you begin to feel dizzy and lightheaded, you get fatigued and even confused. Our bodies require food and water in order to function properly to stay in the right state of mind. But not God. Isaiah says that God neither faints nor grows weary, he doesn't tire out, he doesn't get sick, he never has to take a break, He doesn't sleep, he's not limited by the things that hinder and harm us. And because of that, he is in a unique position to help his people. When our world is spinning out of control, when there's a worldwide pandemic, that sweeping over us, when there is war and turmoil and chaos, God is above it. He doesn't get dragged down into the things that happen in this world. He doesn't worry or feel anxiety or fear, as Peter said, we can cast all of our cares on Him. Because He cares for us. We appeal to one who is greater and higher than anyone on this earth. The fact that he is transcend, transcend, it means that he is also full of this great wisdom and power. God said, or Paul said in Romans chapter 11, and verse 33, Oh, the depth of the riches both of the wisdom and the knowledge of God, How unsearchable are His judgments and unfathomable His ways. God, God's ways are so deep, so rich, they are past finding out. And we think about what why does God ask us to do certain things? Or why does he put us into certain situations or allow things to happen? And Paul may have had some of the same questions. Why did God bring persecution to his life? Or why did God ask him to go into speak to certain people? God doesn't always give an answer for why or how things happen. But instead, he gives us a promise that He will never leave us or forsake us. His love will never depart. As long as we are here on this earth. God is transcendence, we can also hold to God's hand. And we know that he's faithful because he is powerful. Look at verse 26. It says Isaiah 4026, lift up your eyes on high and see who has created these things. Who brings out their host by number, he calls them all by name by the greatness of his mind, and the strength of his power, Not one is missing. Isaiah calls his readers to consider the stars of heaven. There's an estimated 100 billion stars in the Milky Way, that's our galaxy. But our galaxy isn't the only one in the universe. There's an estimated 10 billion galaxies in the observable universe. 10 billion times 100 billion is a billion trillion stars. That's one with 21 zeros after it, or 10 to the 21st power. And did you see what Isaiah says he calls them all by name. When I was in college, we went camping one time and we were out there getting all of our stuff set up. And we had the tents and the sleeping bags and someone had brought an air mattress and it wasn't one of those little thin ones. It was a setup off the ground a couple of feets and it was big enough for two possibly three people depending on how cold it was. And I figured that if I helped set that thing up, I might be one of the ones who would get to use it. And so I got on there. And I started huffing and puffing. And after about five or 10 minutes, I was feeling dizzy and lightheaded and looked like I hadn't made hardly any progress and one of my friends walked up and I thought he was gonna offer to help and he said, Why aren't you using the air pump? There's one in the truck. We serve a God who is incredibly powerful and so often in our lives. We find ourselves huffing and puffing. We're trying to do it all on our own or using our own strength and ability. We end up feeling worn out, exhausted, overwhelmed. In First Corinthians chapter 10 And verse 13, Paul said that God is faithful. God is faithful and He will not allow us to be tempted beyond what we were what we are able but with temptation, he will make a way of escape. So that we will be able to bear it, whether it's fighting temptation, or dealing with rejection or facing uncertainty we need to, to turn and rely on the one who has this incredible power and strength. As Jeremiah said, In Jeremiah 32, and verse 27, is there anything too difficult for the Lord? If God can stretch out the heavens, like a curtain and Number the Stars one by one, then surely he is able to help me in whatever I face, whatever trouble we encounter. And finally, we can depend on God and hold to his hand because he is proven. Isaiah chapter 40 And verse seven. Isaiah 40, in verse seven, says, The grass withers, the flower fades, because the breath of the Lord blows upon it. Surely the people are grass, the grass withers, the flower fades, but the word of the Lord stands forever. As long as this world's world stands, the word of God will continue to endure, His Word will remain, it will never be taken away, or destroyed. And we look throughout the centuries and throughout God's word again, and again, His Word comes up, it is tested and true. And what he says will come to pass his promises are proven, they can be counted on. If you were to make a list of people that you trust in your life, people that you can depend on that if you faced some type of crisis in your life, you could call that person you know that they would be there for you. Who would be on your list? Your parents, your close friend, the elders, the preacher. Is there any possibility that in your time of greatest need, that that person that you had on that list that they could let you know? That they would back out that they would turn away from you and not be there to help? All of us at times are weak, and unstable. We can go from convicted and supportive to weak and falling away and just a matter of moments when Jesus was arrested in the garden. And they led him away. Mark tells us that all of his disciples fled. He was put on trial he had no defense, no one to argue on his behalf. He was led away to be crucified. And he was by himself but he didn't face it alone. God the Father was still with him. And the prophecy was fulfilled Psalm 16, verse 10, he did not allow His Holy One to see decay. Though Jesus tasted death, God raised Him from the dead. And Acts chapter 17. In verse 31, it says, For he has set a Day when He will judge the world with justice by the man he has appointed. He has given proof of this to everyone by raising Him from the dead. God is faithful, He has given us proof of his faithfulness by raising Jesus from the dead. We can have confidence and assurance in the things that God tells us because the resurrection is real. Jesus was raised from the grave. One day he's going to judge the world but he's also going to save and deliver his people. We think about what we can put our hope in what we can put our trust in what we can rely on what we can depend on. There's no lifetime warranty. There's no medicine, there's no exercise routine. There's no secret formula for this life. They can keep us but God can preserve God can give us that eternal life. Trust in Him who will not leave you, Whatsoever yours may bring. If by earthly friends forsaken still more closely to him clean, hold to his hand to God's unchanging hand. God is faithful. He will not leave us or forsake us. We can hold to his hand, all the days of our life. And ultimately he will receive us into eternity if there's something that we can do to encourage or help you. In your connection to God this morning, we're going to sing a song. It's an opportunity to respond to the Lord's invitation to put on Christ and baptism or to recommit yourself to the Lord. There's something that we can do to help or support you please come down to the front as we stand and sing


Transcribed by https://otter.ai