Well, our youngest child, Isaac is a freshman in college. Let that sink in a little bit for those young families that are here, you know, you can't imagine having any of your kids in college probably, especially your youngest, we were just like you at one point, we couldn't imagine that. And some of you've already been passed that and your kids have been to college. And it's just something even hard to imagine that what time brings to all of us. Time brings lots of changes over the past year ish. We've had lots of things happen, right? Lots of changes have gone on. In all of our lives. My in laws, Dave and flora, they've moved up here from Atlanta, they were in Atlanta, 50 some odd years. I don't know how many years they've been in Atlanta. I know at the house, Shannon was at 40 something years, they're in that house, they've moved up here, big change for them. Jacob, our oldest got married a little over a year ago. What about working from home, a lot of people working from home, a new thing? For many people. You know, back in April, I had a good old pancreatitis attack. So that was something that happened in my life. And now I have a change. I don't have a gallbladder. So that's something that I no longer have a change for me. What about here at Broadmoor, we've had construction here at the building. We even had some just past week, some different things there new babies, lots of new babies. And we've even had a few deaths recently that have that have have happened here. And we're still mourning to a point some of those recent deaths, lots of changes in the past year really kind of remarkable when you think about it that what seems like the rapid pace of change in our lives. It is, every day, it is happening so fast. The only constant in life is what is change, right? That's the only constant in life. That was a Greek philosopher that said that, when we think about change, what is change, change is the act of becoming different. I think about every morning, we get up and we change your clothes, right? You've had on some sort of comfortable sleep clothes, so we can sleep through the night as good as we can. And we get up and we change into clothes that are something we can go out go out in public with and we'll change into those clothes. And so that is kind of something every day we do we may change our hair, maybe a haircut or a hairstyle, maybe a hair color might might be a change that you might have. What about becoming a Christian, a big change a big change in someone's life, to put away the sin and to follow God? By doing this, we've agreed to change our lives to be different than who we were before becoming a Christian is a big change. Do you sometimes wish that you could just stop things from changing? I remember one of those moments, you know, when you're a parent, I guess Rosie was six or seven. And she came to me. She said I don't want to grow up. And I said, you don't even know what you're saying. I don't want you to grow up either. I was like thinking I can't even believe she's saying that that little six year old, five year old, whatever it was. And she said I don't want to grow up. But you know, that's not an option, is it? We're going to grow up time is going to change. But is there anything that we can grab on to that won't change? Is there anything that won't change? I want to introduce you to Jenny Wilson. Jenny Wilson was born in Cleveland enniaa, Indiana in 1856. At the age of four, she had a disease that affected her spine and for the rest of her life. She was wheelchair bound. She was never able to attend school, in 1904 out of her life experience and with natural love of music and poetry. She wrote this song hold to God's unchanging hand. The song that we just saying the words of this song are as true now as they were when she wrote them. Let's look at this song a little closer this evening as we think about the topic of a Christians perspective towards change. Time is filled with first verse Your time is filled with Swift transition, not of Earth unmoved can stand making plans. Are you a planner, I like to think at least that I'm a planner. I like to make plans for the next day. I have to do lists, I will admit, there's a little bit of the procrastination that I think makes me feel good about it to do list I like I think I'm going to do these things. And many times I don't get them all done but I like to plan things I like list. I like to check things off. Do you like to plan things? Why is it that we sometimes like that? Is it that we feel like we have some level of control? We feel like that maybe we have a little bit of control over what's going to happen. And we like to plan things. I think that's partly the why I like that but how much control Do we really have every day? How much control over our lives do we have in James four in verse 13, and 14 Come now you who say, today or tomorrow we will go into such and such a town and spend a year there and trade and make a profit. Yet you do not know what tomorrow will bring? What is your life for you are a mist that appears for a little time and then vanishes. Our planning always needs to be done with a view of eternity. We need to plan our lives based on God's plan for us that will impact certain decisions, different choices in our life, it may impact our job decision they may impact who our spouse is going to be, it may impact the friends that we have, we have to think about things from God's point of view, one of Shannon's uncle's John Iverson, some of you may know him, John and an Iverson, wonderful couple that lived in, in, in College Station, Texas, they've since passed away, he always said to, to let us live our life with a view of eternity. Think about that if we can start our day every morning. And thank as we pray to God helped me to live my life today, with a view of eternity. Things can change in an instant campaign. Have you had that phone call, where you knew from here on your life was going to be different things were going to be different in your life, forever. Things can change in an instant. And we've all had that. And second Peter three in verse 10. But the day of the Lord will come like a thief. And then the heavens will pass away with a roar. And the heavenly bodies will be burned up and dissolved and the earth and the works that are done in it on it will be exposed. One day it will be more than our lives being changed. It will be the Judgment Day. It will be the judgment day upon us Are we ready? We must be ready for that. The second part of this verse builds your hopes on things eternal hold to God's unchanging hand. The concept building on a firm foundation, something that that we think about that we know is important. We have a house that was built in 1978. So it's got a little little age on it. And in our main room, we have a wood floor. If you start at the walls and you go towards the middle kind of comes up a little bit, goes back down towards the wall. So you know I'm not a builder, but I guess our foundation around the outside is kind of settled a little bit. We've got it in the middle somehow, it didn't quite settle. So there's a little little ridge there, you may not even notice that we notice it, living there. So our foundation is is having a little bit of an issue there. In Deuteronomy 33 And verse 27, the eternal God is your dwelling place. And underneath are the everlasting arms. Think about building our lives on a firm foundation of God, that underneath are the everlasting arms of God. God is our eternal dwelling place. His arms are their everlasting, waiting to hold us. We can build our lives on Jesus. And his words, he is our rock, solid and firm. Matthew seven, verse 24. Everyone then who hears these words of mine and does them will be like a wise man who built his house on the rock. And the rain fell and the floods came and the winds blew and beat at the house. But it did not fall because it had been founded on the rock. That's where we need to put our trust. That's where we need to build our foundation. In verse two, the first part of the second verse of that song, trust in Him who will not leave you, whatever yours may bring. You think about some of your relationships you had in your life, you think back to your childhood. Think back to some of those childhood friends that you have. You know, I have one friend, that was my best friend growing up, you know, he's one of those security words you have who's your best friend, I'm not gonna give out that name. But he's that for me. And I do talk to him maybe once a year. You know, it's not too bad. I guess in some ways. There's been a year or two maybe they've gone by we haven't talked at all. But when you think about it, How many friends do you really keep in contact with? That's like one of my friends that I had growing up, and I barely keep in contact with him. You know, time has a tendency to change relationships, high school reunions, you know, maybe you've been to a few of those things just just change, don't they? Some of the people that you spent so many close times with, it just is different now in our relationships change over time time as a way of separating human relationships. But what about God? What about our relationship with God? How does it withstand time? In Deuteronomy, Be strong and courageous, do not fear or be in dread of them for it as the Lord your God who goes with you. He will not leave you or forsake you. God's never going to leave His time is not going to be an impact for God and our relationship with Him, it's not going to change anything. He's going to be there for us God's relationship will withstand time. The second part of this birth, verse, if by earthly friends forsaken still more closely to him claim, you know, sometimes it's not just time that separates us in these earthly relationships. Sometimes there's some sort of action, or there's some sort of words that can devastate, maybe devastates a marriage or some other relationship. Far often things are destroyed here from selfish acts, that destroy relationships here, families can be divided due to harsh words and that can linger on for years years in the future. Close friends that you expect support and honesty may not always be true to us. In Psalm 41, even my close friend in whom I trusted, who ate my bread has lifted up his heel against me. Even Judas betrayed Jesus Judas, who was one of the 12 that was around Jesus on a daily basis. Can you imagine that? Can you imagine being around Jesus every day, for a period of time, without seeing everything that he did the perfect, sinless Son of God. And even then, Satan intervened in Matthew 26 and verse 20, when it was evening, he reclined at the table with the 12. And as they were eating, he said, Truly I say to you, one of you will betray Me. And they were very sorrowful, and began to say to him, one after the other is it i Lord, He answered, He who has dipped his hand in the dish with me will betray me, the son of mangoes as it is written of him. But woe to that man by whom the Son of Man is betrayed. It would have been better for that man if he had not been born. Judas, who would betray him answered is it I, Rabbi, he said to him, You have said so. The last part of the verse in the end, the song says, still more closely to him claim. When relationships in this life break down. We develop sometimes difficulty getting close to others, sometimes it can kind of burn us, right, we don't want to get close to others. While we're here in this life, we want, don't want that pain to happen again. But this verse points out the fact that we can put our trust in God. And even when times are difficult, and we're not going well. We can hold his hand even tighter. We can grasp his hand, even tighter He will not leave us in Psalm 37. Trust in the Lord and do good. dwell in the land and befriend faithfulness. Delight yourself in the Lord and He will give you the desires of your heart, Commit your way to the Lord, trust in Him, and He will act, we can commit to God and trust that He is in control, he will not betray us. Verse three, hear of the song The first part says covet not this world's riches that so rapidly decay. You know, we've learned we all know what the word stimulus means. Now over the past few years, right? stimulus, it can just bring on stress, maybe even to think about who's supposed to get stimulus, how much stimulus is somebody supposed to get so much stress over this right? That can get to us and something why are we stressing about something that's really so temporary, right? Money? Money is so temporary? How does that get us so stressed out? But you know, money is one of the primary causes of divorce. If you ever read that statistic, you know, a newlywed couple, you're thinking about first of all, we'll never have any troubles in our marriage, but surely is not going to be about money. Would you ever think that money is going to be the problem in your marriage, but it's the number one cause of divorce. You know, another topic on that is we talked about not going into business with family. You ever heard that don't go into business with family? Why is that so many times, things come up right in business and most of the time is around money, or some sort of decision making, but it can destroy relationships in our families. And look at First Timothy six, in verse nine says But those who desire to be rich, fall into temptation into a snare into many senseless and harmful desires that plunge people into ruin and destruction. For the love of money is the root of all kinds of evil. It is through this craving that some have wandered away from the faith and pierced themselves with many paintings. You know, the last part of that verse up there in the song says rapidly decay. Have you ever heard of the abandoned Nashville guy will know exactly how to explain him. He goes around to these ruins to these abandoned places like the The Tennessee State Penitentiary, the prison, the abandoned one. That's one of them. He's he's not supposed to be doing that. They're, they're off limits, but he doesn't anyway, he'll go into these abandoned places. And it's kind of interesting have to man look at some of these old places and if you've ever been around them what kind of happens? You see like crumbling, right? You see vines growing animals are kind of taking over. You know, that phrase, the earth retakes. You can kind of see that with some of these abandoned places. In James five verses one it says, Come now you rich, weep and howl for the miseries that are coming upon you. Your riches have rotted and your garments are malty and your gold and silver have corroded and they're corrosion will be evidence against you and will eat your flesh like fire. You have laid up treasures, you have laid up treasures in the last days. Makes me think also about Ecclesiastes, where he says here in verse 18, I hated all my toil in which I toil under the sun, saying that I must leave it to the man who will come after me. And who knows whether this, he will be wise or a fool, yet he will be the master of all which I've toiled and used my wisdom under the sun. This also is vanity, do we think about riches too often? Are we too concerned about money in this life and about material things it can creep in, it can be something that really bothers us that can get in it can destroy relationships, we can see here in Ecclesiastes, he's got all this wealth and building and all these things that are going on, and he's like, who's going to take care of it, I'm not going to be around all of the vanity of riches. Will also in the second part of this verse, it says, Seek to gain heavenly treasures that will never pass away. We'll get to Matthew in just a second. But think about if you could invest in something I don't know, if you're much on investing, if you could invest in something that was a lock, something that would give you give you 1,000% increase was zero risk. But that doesn't even make sense in our financial investment, our earthly investments, there's always a risk reward equation there right for things that we invest in. That's a part of it. Well, God's not limited. He's not constrained by the financial markets, the Security and Exchange Commission, don't regulate God, God has an investment opportunity that's out there for us. It's an investment opportunity of a lifetime, are really an opportunity for all eternity. In Matthew six, it says, Do not lay up for yourselves, treasures on earth, where moth and rust destroy and where thieves break in and steal. But lay up for yourselves treasures in heaven, where neither moth nor rust destroys, and where thieves do not break in and steal. What a wonderful opportunity we have to invest in something that's lasting, not something that's here on this earth, that's going to vanish, it's going to pass away, not these abandoned buildings that we see that are going to crumble, not even the wonderful new buildings that we see that we think could never fail, they will fail as long as time has its way with them. And verse four of the song. It says, When your journey is completed, if to God you have been true, fair and bright, the home and glory, your enraptured soul will view our journey will end. And Hebrews nine in verse 27, and just as is as it is appointed for man to die once, and after that comes the judgment. But we do not need to fear. We don't need to fear, the end and that journey. Do not fear here and revelations to do not fear what you are about to suffer. Behold, the devil is about to throw some of you into prison that you may be tested. And for 10 days you will have tribulation, be faithful unto death, and I will give you the crown of life. That's what's in store if we're faith ones unto death. If we put our trust, our confidence, our faith in God, then we will have a crown of life. We can have the confidence in God, we know that we can have confidence here in verse six of Second Timothy, verse four from already being poured out as a drink offering and the time of my departure has come, I have fought the good fight, I have finished the race. I have kept the faith Henceforth there is later for me a crown of righteousness, which the Lord the righteous judge will award to me on that day. And not only to me, but also to all who have loved His appearing. What a wonderful thing to trust in our Lord, that we can have that confidence that we can have that hope in Him in the course of this song It says hold to his hand, God's unchanging hand hold to his hand. God's unchanging hand builds your hopes on things eternal hold to God's unchanging hand. The Corps has a very clear message for us, that is wise, that is comforting, and at times, maybe even difficult. But there is something that we can hold on to that won't change. As life changes our relationships, as it changes our bodies, as our kids grow, as spouses at times may pass on, as we may lose those around us. Maybe our jobs change, our riches go away. If we think about material things, maybe we've had issues in our life, maybe our health dwindles, but there's something that won't change. And that's God are we holding to God's hand? today? Are you holding to his hand? Are you struggling with living in this world, but not being of the world? Are you barely treading water? Is that where you're at right now? Are you feeling that you're about to be pulled under? This song really helps us to think that God is there. He is not changing. He is there for us. We just need to reach for his hand for the unchanging hand and he will lift us up. If there's anyone here today that would like to be baptized, that wants to put on the name of Jesus. It's a great opportunity for that. There's also anyone here that would like the prayers of the church, please come forward and make that known as we stand and

sing


Transcribed by https://otter.ai