Jeremy Sweets  00:05
Good evening. It's good to see everyone tonight, it's good that we can gather together and worship our God. It's always always a blessing. And we have several visiting with us. And so we're glad that you're here with us to worship our God taking time to do that. We have a country with 328 million people in it. With that many people, it takes a lot of food to feed us. In fact, the food industries service and retail food industry is a $1.77 trillion industry. What's amazing about the amount of food in the amount of money of all that takes is that there is a 40 to 50% rate of the amount of food that we produce that is not consumed. So 40 to 50% goes into landfills or it's pushed to the side. And there's a few different reasons for that. One of those is we've kind of developed this obsession with the look of food so the food doesn't look the way we want. A lot of times retailers will not buy that and push that through. But the other simple fact of the matter is that food spoils, food spoils. It is not always pristine, it is not permanent. It is something that simply spoils it is perishable, it is perishable. And while 50% Seems like a high number, there is an even higher rate of perishing among the human population. It's 100%. Everyone who has ever lived as either died or dying, we are perishable, spoiler alert, pun intended, every person who has ever lived has either perished or is is Paracin. They Might Be Giants is a rock band, and they sang a song called older, and it goes something like this, I'm not going to sing it. I'm just going to give you the lyrics. You're older than you've ever been. And now you're even older. And now you're even older. Every time that sing that song that is true, isn't it, no matter when they sing it, you're older than you've ever been. Time is marching on, and time is still marching on. We are perishable. You know, in light of that fact, in light of the fact that our bodies are perishable, I think it's amazing as we look in First Peter, to see so many references to that which is imperishable, that which is imperishable. And tonight I'd like to spend just a few moments talking about imperishable beauty, imperishable beauty. A few different places that it talks about that which is imperishable, imperishable beauty is one of those and First Peter three, the first one is actually talking about an imperishable inheritance. In First Peter chapter one and verse four. Our inheritance that we have is undefiled unfading, and it is kept or reserved in heaven for you. We also see that the seed or the Word of God is the seed that is imperishable from First Peter chapter one and verse 23. It does not fade away, it is imperishable. Now the final reference we find in first Peter is to an imperishable beauty, and is a beauty of a gentle and quiet spirit. And so this is what we're going to spend our time with tonight talking about this in perishable beauty. Well, first of all, as we establish what this passage is dealing with, when might look at First Peter two verses 11 and 12, which serves as a heading for several sections that follow First Peter two verses 11 and 12. There it says this, beloved, I urge you as sojourners and exiles to abstain from the passions of the flesh which wage war against your soul. Keep your conduct among the Gentiles honorable, so that when they speak against you as evildoers, they may see your good deeds and glorify God on the day of visitation. Here we see that we are sojourners and exiles, we are different and who are we sojourning among Well, that's among non Christians. And so Peter says that you are to keep your behavior excellent or honorable. They are to see your behavior. Now as a stranger in exile, there's going to be a certain difference that is between Christians and the world. In fact, they may speak evil of us. They may say that that that group or that lot is a weird people. They don't align with the standards which the world has said is right. And it says that, that they may speak evil against you, but in light of that are in the midst of that Christians are to live honorably, live in a holy way, so that they even in the midst of or while they are speaking evil of us may see how we live. And they may give glory to God and the day of visitation, they may ask what is different about them? Why are they so different? Why they why do they persist, and living a godly life, even when the rest of the world says that's not how you should live? Well, that heading is followed by three different sections that talk about talk to Christians about how they should live among non Christians. The first one comes in verses 13 through 17. There it says to be subject for the Lord say to every human institution, meaning the government there. So Christians are to be subject to the government and live in a godly way, not to live in rebellion or warring or faction against the government. The second one is found in chapter two verses 18 through 25. There it says servants be subject to your Masters With all respect, not only to the good and gentle, but also to the unjust, masters that were not Christians may not act as they should, but servants were to live in a godly way before them even so. And then the final one comes in chapter three verses one through six, or we might even include verse seven there, it says, likewise, wives be subject to your own husbands, so that even if some do not obey the word, they may be one without a word, by the conduct of their wives. And we see once again that Christians are to live in a godly way, in the Midst of Opposition even so that others may see our behavior, our godly behavior, our consistent demeanor, and they may give glory and praise to God. And so this final subject is going to be what we focus on in our text. Tonight, wives must particularly live in an honorable way before an unbelieving husband. And this is true for all Christians, but we're not to give ammunition to the opponents, you know, Satan's heart hurling those darts at us. And we're not to give them any extra ammunition. So we must seek to live godly, even in the face of persecution in the face of difficulty in the face of those that act in a simply different way. This passage tells us also something about the proclamation of the gospel. throughout the New Testament, we see that preaching is important, the proclamation of the Word but here the proclamation is made in silence, we might say it is made through our actions. And so the woman is to influence her husband toward what is right through her behavior through how she lives. Pure conduct is the focus here. And it is required for any godly woman that is seeking to convert her husband. So with that passage in mind, let's notice a few things about this imperishable beauty, this imperishable be beauty. First of all, it is inward focused, not image obsessed, inward focus, not imaged, obsess, verse three says this, do not let your adorning be external, the braiding of hair and the putting on of gold jewelry or the clothing you wear. But let your adorning be the hidden Person of the heart with the imperishable beauty of a gentle and quiet spirit, which in God's sight is very precious. The Bible teaches that we are to be inward focused focused on our character and not image obsessed. Now, let me just throw my quick caveat out there. This does not mean we can't be concerned about our appearance. It's not forbidding Christians from from from women from having makeup or from combing our hair or doing any of those kind of self care items. To be aware and presentable in our appearance is really just a mark of health. Someone that is depressed has really given up on caring about those things. So I'm not suggesting we need to quit brushing our teeth or combing our hair. I know that will upset a lot of kids as they get ready for bed. Mr. Jeremy says we don't have to. No that's not what I'm saying. unit you need to still do those things. But the point is that we don't need to become obsessed over our appearance that should not be the focus of the Christian. And that's particularly hard in our culture, isn't it? Because we live in an image obsessed culture. The problem is not with having a healthy concern for appearance. But with this overreaching obsession over image. Our culture has become obsessed with that, and is seen in many different ways. I my illustration used to be that if you were going through the grocery store, you would see along the lines of the checkout, the all the the tabloids and all the newspapers that were advertising, you know, get into, they would talk about your bikini body and lose weight, lose, you know, 100 pounds, whatever it is, it was all about image. Well, now we have the internet, we don't have to go to the grocery store. It's on our phones, our devices, and it's constantly pushing this obsession with image. Social media pushes us even more, not only is it advertisers that are pushing this idea, but we tend to push it on ourselves. And this is particularly a danger among young people. We curate our lives and present this picture of happiness, and joy out to the world. And guess what, when we look at other people's feeds, all we see is the good times and the happiness, they have a 2015 poll, and I realized that's five years old, and a lot can happen with internet in five years. But a 2015 poll found that the average woman between ages 16 and 25, spends over five hours a week taking selfies five hours a week. And you may chocolate that but you know you don't just take a selfie and then move along, you've got to get the perfect one, this angle and look at it. And not only that, once you take the selfie of yourself, you've got to add the filters and you got to add the image because you have to look just right. Well, the problem with that is that is creating a culture have fakeness if I can use that word, there's not a genuineness that is there it is created in our culture where others look at that and think everyone else is happy. Everyone else is perfect. But me but me. And so teen rates of depression are on the rise. on the rise. Some researchers talked about something they called the duck syndrome, the duck syndrome. And that is this, this image is not a picture of reality. So it's called the duck syndrome because if you look at a duck and they're swimming on the pond, they look like they're just gliding along efforts effortlessly. So on the appearance of things, it looks like they're just swimming along. But underneath the water, they are flapping their legs as hard as they can just so they can fly. They are struggling to stay afloat. And that that is a description of what's happening with many young people. They've taken the selfie, they look great the images out there, but on the inside, they are struggling. There have been many instances of those kids that were found in severe depression or even resulting in suicide. And their feed made it look like they were as happy as they could be. But they were struggling. And so this is what we are raising our kids in this is the the day and age that we are living in a culture obsessed with image. Well, there is a healthy remedy for that in Scripture. We don't need to be so obsessed with image and seek the beauty that is external and perishable. No matter how beautiful you are that that's going to go away and fade away. But the imperishable beauty that Peter talks about, is one of the hearts. Christian women and girls need to pursue and focus on character and being beautiful on the inside and not being obsessed upon image and the outward appearance. This beauty is not found in a hairstyle it's not found in the latest trend or wearing some kind of fancy jewelry or designer clothes. The beauty that we find here that Peter talks about is the the what's found on the inside. It is the hidden Person of the heart. You can't display this in a selfie. You can't display this beauty in in a new feed. But instead it is what is on the inside it is our character, the true benefit, the true beauty that we find here, in the true beauty benefit that a child of God can find is in developing godly character. And so Peter tells us, quite frankly, that we need to be focused on the inside, and not obsessed over image not obsessed over image. We also see that Peter tells us that we need to have a godly influence and not simply a selfish manipulation. We go back to First Peter to in verse 12. There it says, Keep your conduct among the Gentiles honorable, so that when they speak against you as evildoers, they may see your good deeds, and glorify God on the day of visitation. Godly conduct can turn the tide of the opponents those that are opposed to the faith, enemies to the faith, it can turn their their attitude, they can see something that is truly beautiful, and this Christ like life, they may not understand it, they may think it's strange and weird. But when they see the beauty of Jesus as we sing about before the beauty of Jesus in us, they see something that is remarkable. That is remarkable. But if there was ever a time when the ends justify the means, would this not be one, if we're talking about First Peter three, when we're talking about a godly wife and unbelieving husband, there's ever a time when the end justifies the main couldn't a woman use use her physical beauty, to change the mind of her husband. That may make sense from a worldly standpoint, even among those that would share the marriage bed. But But Peter says that's not the way that you're to convert an unbelieving spouse. It's not through physical beauty, even among the marriage couple that would share and be one body together. So even in this relationship, Peter places the emphasis on character, rather than physical beauty, and attraction. And as a side note, I think it's on point as well, that tells us something about the sexual relationship as well. The sexual relationship belongs in marriage between two people that are committed to one another. And that commitment is to love and to cherish. Marriage is about giving. Marriage is about serving the other. A lot of times the sexual relationship gets used as a way to manipulate, it becomes a weapon of demand, or a bargaining chip away to manipulate the other so that I can get what I want. And that's not the way Christians should view the sexual relationship in marriage. It has to be something that is exercised in love and service to the other. First Corinthians seven in verse three says the husband should give to his wife for conjugal rights, and likewise the wife to her husband, for the wife does not have authority over her own body, but the husband does. Likewise, the husband does not have authority over his own body, but the wife does Do not deprive one another except perhaps by agreements for a limited time. A sexual relationship again, is not a bargaining chip or a way to manipulate another. It is not to be used in that way even in the case of trying to convert your husband even then, we need to use godly influence and not selfish manipulation. Thirdly, I'd point to the fact that Christians need to have modest demeanor a modest demeanor and not make boisterous demands. Modesty begins in the heart and it is displayed through both actions and dress and how we live in parishes. And perishable beauty is that which is found on the inside. It is the hidden Person of the heart. God here focuses on the heart and he has always wanted our hearts has he not? And Deuteronomy six and verse five says You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart with all your soul and with all your minds. This was the same quotation or instruction that Jesus says is the greatest commandment to love God with your entire being your entire heart. So it makes sense to us that we are to give our hearts first and foremost to God. And we are to develop our hearts and a godly character. This godly character is defined as, as includes a gentle and quiet spirits, a gentle and quiet spirits. The word gentle includes the idea of not being overly impressed by a sense of one's importance. Gentle, humble, considerate, meek. I can't help but think that definition speaks volumes to the world we live in. me repeat that not to be overly impressed by a sense of one's importance. That's what it means to be gentle. We live in a world where people obsessed with their own importance, or at least seeking and they're seeking this approval, and they they want this approval from others. And the world is about me, I'm going to tell everyone about me. But for Christians, world is not about us. The world is about God, and modesty, recognize that a modest heart a gentle heart recognizes God's proper place. And it is to be gentle, humble, considerate, and meek. The word quiet adds to this and it means to be quiet or well ordered, well ordered. And so there is a a presentation of what is good, not again by boisterous demands, not by saying you have to do this, you need to do this in the context of this marriage relationship. It's not through incessant nagging, but rather it is through living a godly life and displaying the kind of character that would show this this imperishable beauty. The contrast we see in the passage, it talks about in verse three there the braiding of hair, the putting on of gold jewelry, or the the clothing you wear. As Christians that humble heart will be displayed and how we live and how we act and yes and even what we wear. A modest individual will both avoid ostentation, or gaudy display, and gaudy displays on the other side as far as being too revealing. The idea is not to not to again, manipulate others or draw undue attention to ourselves through our clothing. But rather our focus should be on our hearts. When girls strip down or men strip down, and they go to the beach, they go to other places where they can do that the pool. Do you think people are saying look at that godly care. It's not what they're seeing. They're seeing flesh, they're seeing flesh. And so we we have to be careful, we just have to be careful. We want to do everything we can to display a godly attitude that would promote and project God as the true God. And so our focus is not on ourselves or showing off our bodies or being obsessed with our image. And so we need to have a modest demeanor, a modest demeanor. We also say that imperishable Beauty means that we are to be pleasing God, and not simply be focused on others. And this is easier said than done is we are concerned with what others think. We spend our time our energies trying to please other people. As we're growing up and going through school, we want to find our crowd, we want to make sure this person is happy with me and will alter our actions to fit so that they will be pleased with me. And that doesn't always change. When we get to be adults, we get into the workplace and others affect our actions. But here the text says that we should have a focus on our character, which is pleasing it says in the sight of God. First, for Chapter Three says which in God's sight is very precious, very precious. We want to be beautiful people. But the person we're trying to impress the most is God. And God sees beauty in our hearts and our hearts. When a new king was being chosen after Saul, we see that there was consideration of the sons of Jesse and Samuel came and looked at these sons. Well, maybe this is the one he's Paul, he's the oldest, maybe this one, he looks good. And so there is this focus on who would be the next king based upon their appearance, we find that God says, I'm not looking at the outward appearance. God does not look at the outward appearance like man does. That tends to be what we focus on, but God wants the heart. So if we're to be pleasing to God, it's not going to be the person with the best so called body the most fit, any of that kind of stuff lost the most way. In a way God has concerned very little with our outward bodies as far as determining our worth or anything like that. The Bible says that exercise profits little it there's some profit to exercise, there's some profit to work and out a little bit. But in comparison to our character, not much. Our focus and the great profit comes from focusing on our character. And so if we are to please God and focus on pleasing Him, that is what we will place our focus on. Paul stated in Galatians, chapter one and verse 10, he says, For Am I now seeking the approval of men, or of God? Or am I trying to please man, for are still trying to please man, I would not be a servant of Christ. We need to focus on pleasing God, and not being so obsessed with pleasing others. And that's a challenge for each and every one of us, I believe. So what can we learn from this idea of imperishable beauty? Well, I think there's a lot of things that we can take with us through this this week and beyond. And the first one is that we need to prize beauty in the home, prize beauty in the home and it starts in the home. And First Peter three and verses five through seven. Says for this is how holy women who hoped in God used to adorn themselves by submitting to their own husbands, as Sarah obeyed Abraham calling him Lord, and you are her children if you do good and do not fear anything that is frightening. Notice the words that come up in this passage. These are holy women, their hope was in God. That's where they placed their hope and their confidence, and they adorn themselves and the focus is not on their outward adornment, but their character. She submitted and served Abraham, she respected him calling him Lord, which was the common designation at that time. And we are to imitate that exam. To imitate that example. Godly women need to place a focus upon inward beauty in the home. Children grow up and they see if mom is obsessed with image and affair obsessed with physical beauty, then they will pick that up as well. The world is doing everything they can to say that you need to focus on image. And so godly mothers have a big challenge to combat the world to show them that true beauty is found in character, not only mothers but also fathers. In first Peter three in verse seven, it says likewise, husbands live with your wives in an understanding way, showing honor to the woman as the weaker vessel, since they are heirs with you have the grace of life so that your prayers may not be hindered. A woman is not simply a body to be desired, but she is a person to be respected. And a godly husband will respect his wife as a air, a participant and equal air and the grace of life that's so serious to God that if we do not treat his daughter that way, then he will not listen to the prayers that a husband may offer. So it's very serious to God. Godly husbands will respect their wives respect and value their character and children growing up in a home we'll see that and we'll notice that not only is it up to mothers and fathers but children need to be taught again, that beauty is found on the inside. We need to talk to our children and praise them not just for when they wear the nice dress or they look so handsome on the outside but talk about their character. Praise them for the good that they do. Talk about what is good in those things. And there's nothing wrong again with being beautiful and noticing those things, the outward appearance, but that can't be our focus. That can't be our focus. When I was when I was younger, I know my mom Tell me when it came to dating for boys and a girl, for girl wanted to know, if a boy was worth anything, it's probably not how they said it. But you would notice how the boy treated his mother. Young man need to grow up with respect for their mothers, and treat them with respect because that will carry on. So carry on to the why young ladies need to grow up respecting their fathers respecting themselves and caring about what God cares about. So there's a responsibility in the home. We need to prize true beauty in the home. We also need to practice genuine love, genuine love. I like a couple of different words in this passage. Notice in first Peter one and verse 23. I mean, have verse 22. They're having purified your souls by your obedience to the truth for a sincere brotherly love, love one another earnestly from a pure heart from a pure heart. being obsessed with image not only affects how we try to display ourselves, but it affects how we treat others. Are we only kind to the popular beautiful people so that they'll accept us? Or do we practice a genuine love, a love that seeks for, for, that sees people the way God sees them that looks at their character and their hearts. We need to see others as being made in the image of God and treat them with respect and dignity and kindness. Whether they're part of the popular crowd or not, we need to be kind, we need to practice this genuine love. The other word that I noticed there not only this idea of love but genuine. I think so much in our culture goes against this idea of being genuine, we have to put our best foot forward and only present this happy, perfect image. Well, when we're genuine, we're vulnerable. We have blemishes, we have failures, and it does no one any good to pretend like those don't exist. It harms those that would see that and it harms ourselves. Some of these studies that talk about individuals that present this perfect picture but know that the reality is far different, says that that also leads to to a dissonance a feeling of depression and an idea that I'm not being who I really am. To be authentic and genuine is a Christian trait. We're not to be hypocrites or pretenders. So let us practice genuine love, genuine love. And in verse 23, I missed I got these off by one. This continues that thought and another place where it mentions in parachute. Since you have been born again, not a perishable see, but of imperishable through the living and abiding word of God. We need to prioritize spiritual growth. There's a lot of attention played to our outside bodies, our fitness and what we're eating and all those things. But our focus should be on what's the on the inside. And so we should prior prioritize spiritual growth, we should feed upon God's word, if we're to develop imperishable beauty that starts with going to God's word and having a steady diet of His Word, reading that putting that into our hearts. seitan is doing everything he can to put the world into our hearts with a steady diet of all the things we see out there and we have to combat that. So let us prioritize spiritual growth and feed upon God's imperishable Word. Let us also pursue treasure in heaven. Pursue treasure in heaven. In this life, we can become so materialistic focused on the image. If we get the right kind of clothes, the designer clothes or have the right kind of possessions, then we can impress everyone else. They can know that we're importance. Well, that's no way to live. There's no there's nothing true or anchoring in that kind of attitude. In fact, you may do all this but someone's gonna outdo you or someone may not be pleased with you the way you want. Instead, we need to pursue the treasure that is found in heaven. In first Peter one and verse four. There it says that we are to seek this inheritance that is imperishable, undefiled and unfading reserved in heaven for you who by God's power being guarded through faith for salvation ready to be revealed in the last time. As I mentioned, we may do everything we can to please other people. They may not be pleased with us. But when it comes to God, God says that if you will be my child, then he will love you. There is a greater certainty in God's love than there is the world's. And we can find that treasure in heaven and in pleasing Him, that should be our goal. It is reserved for us it is offered by God, it will not be defiled and it will not perish. It will not perish. Well, there's a lot we can learn from this passage in First Peter, and this is true not only for women, but I hope you understand this. This applies to men as well, we need to focus on godly character and influencing others. So a lot of this applies so much to men, as well. Well, this is the end of the lesson, I will mention that we do have an opportunity to obey the gospel. We've not talked about what's involved in that. But if you believe that Jesus is the Christ, repent of your sins, confess Jesus as the Christ and be baptized in the water for forgiveness of sins, then you can be a child of God. What a blessing that is. If you're here tonight, and you are a Christian, but you're not honoring the commitment you made when you became a Christian, then you also need to make changes and you can correct your course correct your path so that you get back on track following God. I know that this church would love nothing more than to pray with you or for you or help you in any way. There are any that are subject to limitation please comes with stand and sing at this time.


Transcribed by https://otter.ai