Conrad Harkrider  00:02
It's great to see you tonight we have a number that are visiting with us. And we're so glad that you've come to worship and study God's Word. With us tonight, if you want to be opening your Bibles to Nehemiah chapter four. That's where we're gonna be spending our time tonight. Nehemiah chapter four. On Wednesday nights, we have just started a Bible class in the book of Mark. And this past week, Kevin was giving some introductory comments and he highlighted the fact that Mark's gospel starts off very fast. There's no mention about the birth of Jesus, the manger scene, what was going on with the angels and the shepherds and all of that he jumps right into the ministry of Jesus. And the mark goes on to talk about how Jesus went to be baptized by John the Baptist, and the Holy Spirit came down and descended upon Him like a dove. And then from that point on, it's it's almost like, Mark just gets rolling with the the ministry of Christ. He says that Jesus was healing the sick, and casting out demons that people were coming to him from all over the region, that they wanted to see him, they wanted to hear him, they wanted to be around him. And Mark says that his fame was spreading all over the place. And we see this immediate success that Jesus has that people were drawn to him. And the people, the common people were impressed by the things that he was saying and doing. But it doesn't take long for Jesus to enter into a period of resistance. And chapter two, as Jesus is helping and healing the man who is paralyzed, he says that your sins are forgiven in the scribes push back on that on that they say, Who can forgive sins except God alone. And so Jesus faces his first period of resistance of pushback. And of course, it wouldn't be the first time or the last time that he would face that type of resistance from those who are listening to him. And so we think about, seeking to do what is right striving to do God's will, how should a person or how should we respond in the face of adversity? In the midst of some type of opposition? That's what we see in the ministry of Christ. And I'd like for us to consider that question. That that topic in the face of adversity and we're going to look at this text from Nehemiah chapter four. So read with me, Nehemiah chapter four, beginning in verse one. It says, But it so happened when Sanballat heard that we were rebuilding the wall, that he was furious, and very indignant, and he mocked the Jews. And he spoke before his brethren and the army of Sumeria and said, What are these feeble Jews doing? Well, they fortify themselves, will they offer sacrifices? Will they complete it in a day? Will they revive the stones from the heaps of rubbish stones that are burned? Now Tobiah the Ammonite was beside him. And he said, whatever they build, even a fox, even if a fox goes up on it, he will break down their stone wall. Here, oh god here, oh our God, for we are despised, turn their reproach on their own heads and give them as plunder to a land of captivity. Do not cover their iniquity and do not let their sin be blotted out from before you, for they have provoked you to anger before the builders. So we built the wall and the entire wall was joined together up to half its height for the people had a mind to work. Now it happened when Sanballat Tobiah the Arabs the Ammonites and Ashot eyes heard that the walls of Jerusalem were being restored and the gaps were being beginning to be closed, that they became very angry. And all of them conspired together to come and attack Jerusalem. and create confusion. Nevertheless, we made our prayer to our God. And because of them, we set a watch against them day and night. If you remember back in Nehemiah chapter three, were given this long list of names of different people that had come to work on this building project to work on rebuilding the wall. That's what they were focused on, in Nehemiah time, and it was a very exciting time for the people they had made some progress and they could see the fruits of their labor. And Nehemiah has come back from the land of Persia. He has the resources, he has the materials, the people, he has the approval of the king, to rebuild, enter, restart this project. And they begin this great work. But here in chapter four, they face a period of resistance of adversity. And we see here in the first nine verses that the people who are living in the land began to put some pressure on them. The text mentions Sanballat, a ruler from Sumeria. In verse seven, it says Tobiah, who was an ammonite, the Arabs, the Ashot it these are all of the different people that are living around Jerusalem, the neighbors, of the people of Judah, and when they hear that the wall is being repaired, it says that they were enraged that they are very angry about this. When I was a kid, we used to go and play football at one of my friend's houses after school. And we were there in the front yard. And in order to make the field a little bit bigger, we expanded it into his neighbor's yard. And so we had in zones in each driveway, and we would play driveway to driveway. One day, we came home after school to find that there had been a series of hedges that had been planted along the 50 yard line of our field. And apparently this neighbor wasn't comfortable with us using his property for our game. But you can imagine the Jews have been gone for the past 70 plus years. And the people surrounding this area have grown accustomed to that they have now become the ones that are in control of this area. And so when they see that they are coming back and now establishing reestablishing this city, fortifying its walls. The text says that they are angered, greatly angered by this. Well, the first thing they tried to do is these discouraging words, they start offering up all kinds of insults. This is good old fashioned trash talk that they're using. In verse two. He says that these are feeble Jews. He says what are they possibly going to make out of this burned rubbish this trash heap that they're working on. And then in verse three, you see Tobiah, the Ammonite I see this as like the little sidekick, he runs up and he kind of has a in my mind a high squeaky voice. And he says yeah, even if the fox climbs up on that wall, the smallest of animals, the lightest of creatures, that that would be enough to just knock this whole thing over. And so they're saying whatever they can to try and get inside of the people's minds. You remember in Second Kings chapter 18, when Hezekiah and the people are enclosed inside of the city, and the commander of the Assyrian army comes to Jerusalem, and they're making all of these threats to the people. And one of the leaders of the people goes out and he asks the enemy, he says, please speak to us in Aramaic. Stop speaking the language of the people because we don't want them to hear all the things that you're saying that are about to happen. And the the impact that that would have on the hearts of the people. But here in the A Maya's day these insults are being thrown around and everyone is able to hear it. And it seems to have an effect on the people. Because it says in verse 10, it says then in then Judah said the strength of the labors is failing and there is so much rubbish that we are Not able to build the wall. So now these these taunts and these threats are starting to get into the mind of the people that now this is becoming something that's being expressed among the community that we're not going to be able to finish this project. We'll also notice verse six. Also notice verse 11. It says, An our adversary said they will neither know nor see anything, till we come into their midst and kill them, and cause the work to seize. Now there is this threats of violence, these threats that they're making, this is no longer just words, they are now making plans to come and to do harm to the people. It's getting serious. And they're looking to physically force this and stop the building of this wall. So what are the people going to do? They have this great work that is set before them, that God has charged the people with restoring the city restoring the worship in the temple. But now there's this pressure on from various aspects, the words, and then ultimately, the physical threats. So how should they respond to this adversity? Well, notice in what he says in verse six, so we built the wall, and the entire wall was joined together up to half its heights for the people had a mind to work. First of all, we see that in responding to this type of adversity. Nehemiah says that the people had a mind, they have a mind to work, the effort doesn't stop because there's some type of resistance that's coming. They are focused on completing this task. They have the the will to continue on their heart is in this project. This is amazing considering all the things that are going on around them the danger that was awaiting them, the the lack of training, this is not a well equipped army that's fought numerous battles and campaigns. These are mostly people who work in farming who've come back from captivity. And now they're trying to do this great work, but their mind and their hearts were in it. I think about the Apostle Paul and Acts chapter 20, when he's talking to the Ephesian elders, and he tells them that he knows he understands what's waiting for him, that in every city that he's gone to the Holy Spirit has prophesied about the imprisonment, the persecution, the chains, that is waiting for him. But notice what he says in Acts chapter 20, and verse 24. He says, but I do not account my life of any value, nor as precious to myself, If only I may finish my course and the ministry that I have received from the Lord Jesus, and to testify to the gospel of the grace of God. Paul has this mind to do the work of the Lord, there was something that was so important to him. Something that was more valuable to Paul than even his own life, his own safety, was to do the work of God to share the gospel with other people. And what we learn from the account of Nehemiah is that even in the face of great adversity, God wants His people to display that resolve that determination to continue to work and serve him well. How can we do that? How can we have this mind to work we start off strong, and we have good intentions. But then when the reality sets in and it gets difficult, we may start to wane or start to falter. Think about Jacob when he was trying to find a wife for himself. Jacob went to stay with his family, and he met his future father in law Laban. And he offered him a deal. He said, I will work for seven years in order to marry your daughter, Rachel. Now that I have three daughters, seven years of work sounds like a pretty reasonable amount of time. But this is not work in a air conditioned air conditioned office building. Jacob is out in the field. He's working among the animals. He's sweating. He's doing manual labor. Taking care of the flocks, he is a shepherd. But Genesis chapter 29, verse 20, says that these years, the seven years seemed only as a few days, because of the love that he had for her. In other words, his attitude and perspective on the work. And the tasks that was at hand were completely, they were completely different. He wasn't focused on all of the difficulties getting up early, having to work long days, the sights and the smells and all that was involved in that job. But instead, he was focused on the end goal, he was looking at what was waiting for him and, and when we are working towards a goal to to a prize, that outlook can make all the difference. He knew what he was doing, and why he was doing it. And that changed his attitude and his, as followers of Christ, God calls us to live lives of service, to live in a way that is different from the world, to be humble, to be forgiving to love those around us. And I can tell you that, that that work is not always easy. Not always enjoyable. It's not the first thing that we would choose for ourselves similar to raising kids. Some days go really well. And it feels like a blessing like this is exactly where God wants me to be. And other days, you're left wondering how am I going to survive this? How am I going to make it to the end? How are they going to make it to the end to grow to maturity, but when we have this mind to work, we don't operate based upon day to day feelings on how am I'm feeling right at this moment. Because if we did, we'd be constantly wanting to quit, but instead we keep our eyes on the end goal. And Nehemiah say it was about rebuilding this wall. So they can secure the city for their families. But for us, it's growing to be like Christ. And we need to continue on in this to have this mind to work in the face of adversity. We also need to remember the Lord. Notice what he says in verse 14, in Nehemiah four in verse 14, he says, and I looked at a rose and said to the nobles, to the leaders and to the rest of the people, do not be afraid of them. Remember the Lord great and awesome and fight for your brother and your sons, your daughters, your wives, and your houses. Nehemiah and the people are constantly thinking about God, what is God's role? Where is God in all of this? Look back at at Verse four, Nehemiah four verse four. He says here, oh our God, for we are despised turn their reproach on their own heads. So he cries out to God for help. And Nehemiah for in verse nine. He says, Nevertheless, we made our prayer to our God. And because of them, we set a watch against them day and night. So Nehemiah is thinking about God, he's imploring god, he's asking for God's help, and his guidance and his protection. And this is a theme throughout the book, you remember in chapter two before Nehemiah goes in to make his request before the king he prays to the Lord so that he will have success in that endeavor. And here in the Midst of Opposition, he tells them to remember the Lord. Don't forget about God, don't take God out of the equation. Look at verse 15. In verse 15, he says, and it happened when our enemies heard it, that it was known to us that God had brought their plot to nothing. Who was it that was responsible for frustrating these enemies? Was it Nehemiah and the leaders? Was it all of the people? Was it the planning? No, he says that God brought their plot, and he frustrated their plans. And so we see that, looking to God, remembering God is so critical, despite what the world may think, despite what people may say, God is still active. He is still working and he provides strength for his people today and whatever they face in Zechariah. In Zechariah, chapter four and verse six, it says that he said to me, this is the word of the Lord is irredeemable, not by might nor by power, but by My Spirit, says the Lord of hosts. So rubble had been charged with rebuilding the temple. And Zachariah comes to him through the Lord or through the Lord. He speaks to him Earth. Zach, the Lord speaks to Zerubbabel through Zachariah, and he says, this is not going to happen. You're not going to complete this project, by your own strength, by your own mind, but he says, by my spirits, they would be successful in this. Remember the Lord? How are we going to overcome this obstacle? How do we get past this anxiety that we're feeling this fear that's coming over us? How do we move past that temptation or that stumbling block near Nehemiah says that we need to remember who the Lord is. He is great and awesome. When the disciples got into the boat with Jesus, and that storm came up on the Sea of Galilee, have you ever thought about how long they waited until they woke him up? Mark says that there was a great storm that the the water the waves were crashing into the boat that the boat was starting to fill up. And by the time they go to Jesus, and they and they asked for his help, they almost are accusing him. They think that he has forgotten about them. They say, Don't you care that we are perishing? Did Jesus know what they were going through? Did Jesus care that they were facing a great trial, they had forgotten who was with them. In the boat. They had forgotten to remember the Lord the master of Ocean and Earth, and sky. And just with a word he called the Sea peace. Be still. We need the Lord, we need the Lord to be close to us. To be with us every step of the way. When I was younger, we were we had a dog of our family dog. And as she got older, she started to have some problems. And she got to a period where she wasn't eating very much. And I told my mom, we just need to put more food in her bowl that she likes. You know, we need to put more meat in there. We need to douse her her food with gravy because that then she'll start to eat it but nothing was working. She just continued to to refuse. She was getting skinny, she was losing weight. She was malnourished, and without the proper nutrition she was wasting away. When we are disconnected from the Lord, that's what happens to us spiritually. We start to get spiritually fatigued, our heart and our soul can grow cold. And that's why it's so important for us to stay connected. To be with Christians on a regular basis, to stay in God's word to continue to pray, to connect with the Lord, and to remember that he is the only one who can uphold us with His righteous right hand to remember the Lord when facing adversity. Also notice what they did in verse 16. It says Nehemiah 416. So that it was from that time on that half of my servants worked at construction, while the other half held the spheres, the shields the bows and more armor. And the leaders were behind the house of Judah. And those who built on the wall and those who carry burdens loaded themselves so that with one hand they worked at construction, and with the other held a weapon. When facing a great challenge we need to be as Nehemiah and his people were prepared for action. Nehemiah, people come up with a strategy for how they're going to handle how they're going to deal with this threat. Because there is this real imminent danger that's being posed against them. They need a way to defend themselves to be able to to ward off possible attacks. And so what they come up with is that half of them would work and the other half would hold a weapon a spear, a sword, a bow or a shield. And then in verse 17, he says that even those who are carrying something, a burden for stones or whatever was needed for the construction, they would hold that in one hand and then in the other they would be holding some type of sword or weapon and so they would be prepared or ready for whatever was going to come their way. I'm so impressed by this attitude, instead of just canceling the project, instead of saying, Well, this is, this is a real threat here, we need to just wait. We need to stop the construction until we can work things out with these people. They expected a fight to come. And they made the necessary preparations to be able to face whatever came their way. So often when we face a setback, or pushback from someone, we might think that it's a sign that we have failed that this is not going well think about a time where you've tried to talk to a neighbor or a friend about the gospel about the Bible. And maybe you've asked them some questions, or you've invited them to come to services, and they just kind of shut you down. What's the first? What's sometimes the first thing that comes to our minds? What did I do wrong? What did I say that that turned them off. And we might get discouraged and think, Well, I'm never going to try that again. But Nehemiah and the people don't quit. They realize that even though there is this pushback, there's this hostility, that that doesn't mean that they're doing the wrong thing. They continue to press on. And instead, they just prepare themself for this resistance to come. They realize that they need to be prepared for whatever situation they may find themselves in. A few years ago, there was a group of us from Broadmoor that were celebrating someone's graduation, and we went to play around a paintball. And the instructor, the the guy that was helping us get all geared up, was really adamant about the mask, he kept talking about the mask, don't touch your mask, when you're on the course, Don't adjust your mask, don't take your mask off, don't wiggle your mask. And I was thinking this guy is paranoid about the mask, you know, he's just way overreacting to this whole thing. We got out on the course. And within the first five minutes, I came up behind from behind my barrier and got shot right in the face. And I looked over at that guy, and I'm thinking he knows what he's talking about. I mean, these masks, these are important. And I think when Paul was using that, that analogy of the armor of God in Ephesians, chapter six, that's an intentional allusion or illustration, because we are involved in a great battle, a spiritual war. And there are all kinds of flaming arrows and wild beasts and pitfalls and dangers that are all around us. And whether it's some type of desire of the flesh, or the desire for more money, or the desire to to be well liked, or the pride of life, or whatever it may be, we need to be ready. We need to constantly be on guard as these people were, they never left their house without their weapon. They always had their sword on their side, they were prepared and ready for action to fight against evil no matter when it came. And finally, when facing any type of difficulty, we see in Nehemiah say, the need to support one another. Look at verse 19. Nehemiah four verse 19, it says, Then I said to the nobles, and the rulers and the rest of the people, the work is great and extensive. And we are separated far from one another on the wall. Whenever you hear the sound of the trumpet rally to us there are God will fight for us. The people realize that there is a problem there. They're working on a very dispersed area. This was about a mile and a half around. And so what happens if there's an attack from the east or it comes from the West, the the the people are dispersed, so they are vulnerable. So they come up with a plan, a strategy that they will blow a trumpet, and everyone will gather to that spot, they will rally together in order to fight. They realize that if they're going to be successful and hold off their enemies, they have to do it together. They have to be banded together as one. They needed to rely and support one another. Last week we're sitting down for dinner During the meal, I was going to take a bite and instead of getting my food, I got the tip of my tongue. And it hurt so bad and knocked me out of my chair. And my wife didn't know if I was having a heart attack or a stroke or what was going on. And as I was down there in my agony, trying to make sure everything was still intact. I felt some little hands on my back. And then I saw some little faces peering into my face. And they were checking on me, Daddy, are you okay? Is everything all right? Paul said that when one member suffers, when one member feels pain, they go through some type of difficulty all members should suffer. Together, he said that if one is honored, then all rejoice. Together, we should feel pain. When our brothers or sisters are going through a difficulty, Paul says that we are members of one another. It's like being in a body, that when one suffers, we all feel that same disk discomfort. But it's more than just feeling bad. We need to rally as the people did here, rally to their side, come to their aid and support them. And that involves some type of action, maybe it's a phone call, maybe it's a message, maybe it's a meal, maybe it's an offer to to help their family or to help around their house. But whatever it is finding ways to reach out and support brothers and sisters. And maybe you think well, I can't do any of those things. What about just praying for another person? What about letting them know hey, I am praying for you. And offering that encouragement, and that comfort. God never intended for us to build the wall to work and serve and as Kingdoms by ourselves, we need to reach out and support each other when we face these difficulties. Well, God has laid before us a great project even even now in our time. And Jesus said that the harvest the fields are wide, but that the laborers are few we need all hands on deck. Regardless of what difficulty or adversity we might face. We have to continue on in this building for the Lord. We're going to close tonight with a song of encouragement if there's something that we can do to help or support you in your faith or your walk with Christ. Please come down to the front as we stand and sing


Transcribed by https://otter.ai