Conrad Harkrider  00:02
It's good to see all of you out tonight if you want to be opening up your Bibles to the book of Nehemiah, Nehemiah chapter three. And if you're looking for Nehemiah, just try to find Psalms and then go back a couple of books, and you're right there. We had some friends that came and stayed with us recently. And I was asking their kids one night what their favorite story from the Bible was. And their oldest who was about eight years old, I'll never forget his response. He said, My favorite story is revelation. And I said, that's a good book. What do you like in Revelation? He said, I like the part when the beast goes down into the pits, and all of God's people go up to heaven. And the whole time he's explaining this to me, I'm thinking, what kind of Bible curriculum are they doing at his church, the beast and the dragon and the pits and God's people being saved for all eternity. That's amazing. But I imagine if we went around the room tonight, and we asked each one of us to talk about our our favorite piece of scripture, there would be a variety of responses. Some people would choose a story from the Old Testament, David and Goliath or the walls of Jericho and Joshua and the people marching around. Others would choose something from the New Testament, one of the epistles, the book of Romans, or Ephesians. But I am confident that at the top of that list, the one that would get the most votes of anything that was mentioned would be the genealogies. Everyone loves genealogies, we come up to those long lists of names in the scriptures, and our ears just start to tingle with excitement. And we love reading through those name. By Name. Of course, I'm kidding around. Because most of the time when we get to one of those sections in Scripture, we kind of gloss over it. We might even observe the Passover and move on to the next chapter. But often those texts give us details and clues that are very important things that may not be mentioned anywhere else in Scripture. And they help us to understand that there were lots of people involved in God's story, not just the names that make it into the songs Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. So tonight we're going to look at one of those lists of names. Not necessarily a genealogy, but a long list of names from Nehemiah chapter three. As the people begin building the wall, it's time to build Nehemiah chapter three. Read with me in verse one. Then Elias ship the high priests rose up with his brethren the priests and built the sheep gate. They consecrated it and hung its doors they built as far as the tower of the 100 and consecrated it. Then as far as the tower of Hannah Nell next to Eliashib, the men of Jericho built and next to them Zacher, the son of moi built also the sons of hasta, Neha built the fish gate, they laid its beams and hung its doors with its bolts and bars. And next to them, mera moth, the son of your raija, the son of cars made repairs next to them, Michelle them, the son of bear Kaia, the son of Michelle Isabel made repairs next to them Zadek, the son of Binya made repairs next to them that to co Eitz made repairs. But their nobles did not put their shoulders to the work of the Lord. Moreover, Jehovah, the son of past SEYA, and Muslim, the son of Besa Dania repaired the old gate. They laid its beams and hung its doors with its bolts and bars. Next to them met Elia the Givi a night and Jaden that Marana thight the men have given and Misbah repaired the residents of the governor of the region beyond the river. Next to him UCL, the son of her HYAH one of the goldsmith's made repairs. Also next to him, had an eye on one of the perfumers made repairs and they fortified Jerusalem as long as As the board the broad wall and next to them ref ei the son of her leader of half of the district of Jerusalem, made repairs next to them to Daya, the son of her Roma made repairs in front of his house. And next to him, hats ash, the son of hash Vinaya made repairs. Now Kaija, the son of hay rim and hash of the son of Puthoff. Moab repaired another section as well as the tower of the ovens. And next to him was Shalem, the son of Hala HESH, leader of half of the district of Jerusalem, he and his daughters made repairs. Hannon with the inhabitants of cinoa repaired the valley gate. They built it hung its doors with its bolts and bars and repaired 1000 cubits of the wall as far as the refuse skate. Alright, let's stop right there. So this is a listing of all of the different people that were involved in the building project. These people's names make it into the scripture, and they are preserved for all time. It's incredible, because of their participation in this great work. The book of Nehemiah is set in the time of the return from captivity. And if you remember, Nehemiah was a cut bear to the king of Persia. And in chapter two, he asked the king for permission, as well as resources to be able to return back to the land of Judah, to make repairs to the walls of Jerusalem. In verse, it's interesting to note that out of all these names that are listed here, Nehemiah is not in the chapter, there is a Nehemiah in verse 16. But that's a different person. But the emphasis here is on the people, those who are participating and taking part in this great task. The text describes the various places around the wall. And there are some key markers that help us to kind of know where we're at here. There are there are a number of points of reference that are listed the sheep gate, the fish gate, the old gate, they had lots of creative names for their gates. But the passage has a logical flow. This is a map of Jerusalem during the time of Nehemiah his day. And you can see that in chapter three, verse one, it starts at the very top there in the north east corner at the sheep gate where that gold star is. And then the passage moves to the west and sort of just works its way around the wall describing all of the different sections that the people were working on. Oftentimes, the the people who are mentioned, are working on a section of wall that is right next to their house. And that was helpful for a number of reasons, first of all, would have been very convenient for them. They can wake up and get started on their work. But it was also instilling a sense of ownership of responsibility. This wall is sitting right outside of where you and your family live, what kind of wall Do you want it to look like? How secure Do you want it to be? And so people would have taken ownership for the work that they were doing that was close to their house. Notice where the work starts and ends and verse one, it says that they built the sheep gate. And then down in verse 32, at the end of the chapter, it says, and between the upper room at the corner as far as the sheep gates, the goldsmith's and the merchants made repairs. So they start and end at this sheep gate, the sheep gate would have been the gates where sheep passed through. And the purpose of that would have been for sacrifice inside of the temple, this gate was close to where the temple was located. And so the fact that this is mentioned at the first as well as at the end, may be pointing to the fact that they were placing emphasis on the worship of the Lord. They wanted to repair this gate that was used for sacrifice first, so that the worship of God could go on and continue. In 2007 there was some work that was done in Jerusalem to try and repair a tower that was starting to collapse. And this is the picture that you're looking at here is called the stepped stone structure. Maybe some of you have seen this in real life. But they quickly realized that they weren't going to be able to make repairs to this tower. And so they've decided to start excavating the area instead. And what they found were a number of really interesting items that included pieces of Persian pottery that dated to the time of Nehemiah. And they also uncovered parts of the wall that Nehemiah and these people had worked on. And what they found was that the stones were not all neatly stacked and put together. But rather, there was a more rushed type of construction that was taking place. And that would make sense. And Nehemiah chapter six and verse 15, it says that it took 52 days to complete this project. But keep in mind, they're not building from scratch here, they would have been repairing parts of the wall that had been knocked down walls that were built by David, or Solomon or Hezekiah. They're building on top of those, and trying to restore the walls that were already there. There's a number of lessons though, that we can take from this, this text. And I want to highlight a few of those for you with the remainder of our time. First of all, notice that this building project required every person in verse one, we're told about some of the people and their occupations or their background about what what type of life that they were involved or living before they started helping with this project. And it gives us a sense of all the different types of people that were helping with this work. And that was needed because this was a huge project. The wall was about a mile and a half around the city. It's estimated that was around eight feet wide, it's traversing over valleys are down through valleys and over mountainous terrain, and they're working with primitive tools. They don't have cranes and large machinery. They don't have a huge, a huge body of slave labor, like Solomon did when he built his temple or like Pharaoh did when he was building some of his cities. And so to complete this task, they are going to need all of the people to help. Notice what it says in verse one, that Eliashib the high priest rose up with his brethren the priests and built the sheep gate. The high priest is out there working on the wall with the rest of the priests. In verse two it mentions the men of Jericho who are helping. Jericho is not Jerusalem, they're coming from another city to be able to work on the wall and verse seven, it says the men of Gibby and Mizpah take part in the effort given Misbah were to the north of Jerusalem six or seven miles away, but they've come down to help with this project. It also mentions people who were perfumers and had other occupations, they are taking part of this work. And what stands out to me from this list of names, as we're reading, about Nehemiah kind of his his personal experience with talking to the king and then traveling to the land, but then you get to chapter three. And there's all these other people that are mentioned. And it shows that this is not a work that Nehemiah could do on his own. He had to involve others. Each and every person was playing an important role in order to complete this project. And in order to do that they had to work shoulder to shoulder side by side focused on the same goal and purpose if they wanted to be successful. We think about the church today this, this lesson is so relevant, every member of the Body of Christ is needed. Paul makes this point in Ephesians chapter four and verse 16, when he says, for whom the whole body joined and held together by every joint with which it is equipped, when each part is working properly, makes the body grow so that it builds itself up in love. This morning at the 11 o'clock service, Curtis was talking about our Bible classes and how we're getting ready to start back up with Sunday morning and Wednesday night classes. That is a huge undertaking, trying to coordinate material for 80 Plus kids, ranging from one years old all the way up to seniors in high school. And that is not something that Curtis Byers, or Trevor brand, or any one person could do by themselves. And if we're going to complete a task like that, it's going to require all hands on deck, the way Paul says it, that every part is working properly. What happens if you have a part that's not doing its function, if one of your legs is is not working, you're having to hop on on the other, you can still get around, you can make it okay. But having one part of the body shelter and carry all of the load, it doesn't work, it you start to tire out, you may get injured. And so, Paul and understands that there is a need for all of the parts to come together. Each one plays a role. We depend on each other, we need one another. And when every part is working, the end result, as Paul says, his growth, we will experience growth. It's also worth noting that in Nehemiah Ze, not every person was working on the same task. Some people were working on the gates, some people were working on a certain section of wall, other people were standing guard and offering protection. But there are all of these different roles and functions that were important that were necessary and needed. And what we need to remember is that the Lord needs every person to participate in the work. But that doesn't mean that every person is going to have the same function or play the same exact role. And the reminder for us is that regardless of what the role is, if we are participating in the work of the Lord, it's it's necessary, it's valuable, it's important. If we are encouraging someone who has been sick for a long time, that is just as important as standing up to lead a prayer in front of the congregation, sometimes we put a lot of emphasis on the things that are more visible, that are up in front of people. But all of those works are necessary. And so regardless of who you are, or where you're at, if you're young or old, if you are married or single, if you have kids at home or not. There are roles and there is work that we can do. And that kind of leads into this next point, which is that nothing is beneath us. There is no work or task in the Lord's church in the body of Christ, that we are to experience to do that we are too high or or we've risen to a level where we don't need to partake in that. One interesting aspect of this text and Nehemiah three is that we're given details about what these people were working on. And who these people were Look at Verse 32. It says in between the upper room and the corner as far as the sheep gate, the goldsmith's and the merchants made repairs, the goldsmith's and the merchants are out working on the wall, do you think a goldsmith was that a high paying job or a low paying job during this time, if you're going to entrust your gold in the hands of someone else, and they are going to work on it and fashion it into something or create something for you with that gold, that's probably going to be an individual who's very trusted, very talented, not a lot of those walking around the city. He mentions the merchants, people who would buy and sell someone who had business since merchants. That's not a physical labor job, like a stone cutter or a farmer. And yet these people are out working on the wall. Imagine if you went into a furniture store and there was a high end furniture store, and there's a sales rep that comes out to meet you and he begins talking to you and he's showing you all of the different lines that they have and telling you about the various pieces that are in their showroom. And after a couple of minutes, you see him excuse himself and he goes to the back of the store. And you see him go through a couple of doors and he gets up onto the loading dock. He's in his dress shirt and his slacks and he begins taking stuff off of the truck, a shipment that just came in. He's covered in dust. He's sweating from his his face and he's helping get these big pieces of furniture into the store. Then it comes running back out onto the show into the showroom. And he says, you know, how can I help you? I mean, that doesn't make any sense. Usually those jobs are separated, they're segregated. But in the Lord's in the Lord's body when it's time to build, there's nothing that's beneath us. We see here that the goldsmith's are getting out there. They're using their strength and their talent to do this work. And they're engaging in this important effort. Not everyone was so eager and willing to participate. Look at verse five. In chapter three verse five, it says next to them that to Ko is made repairs, but their nobles did not put their shoulders to the work of the Lord. Those who had come from to koa begin helping in the in the work with the project, but it says that their leaders, some of their nobles would not stoop they would not put their shoulders down into the work. Nehemiah is a great book that shows what true leadership looks like. true leadership is not pointing the finger and telling other people to go and do true leadership is not just giving orders, standing back and then waiting for the job to be finished. true leadership is leading by example. They took they look true leaders look to serve instead of being served. Nothing is beneath us. It could be something as small as taking time to talk to a child or visit with someone who is elderly, showing them attention taking interest in them. What about types of service that are not as glamorous, or fun or enjoyable things like picking up trash on the floor, or mowing the lawn or helping clean up after a meal. Or taking out the garbage when it's starting to overflow like a volcano and you're the first one to see it. Or what about reaching out to someone who is new, or who's visiting or who's maybe not as easy to talk with. You know, these Goldsmith's when they were out there lifting heavy rocks, there probably was some level of discomfort. They were outside of what they were used to doing, but they kept on with it because they knew it was the right thing to do. Jesus is the ultimate example of humility, service. Although he was incredibly powerful, he still came to earth and he made time for those who were weak. He allowed children to come and sit with him. And if the Son of God who reigned in unapproachable light, is able to come down to earth and serve. Surely we can lower ourselves and acts of service to the Lord. There's also an interesting statement that's made in verse 12. Look at verse 12. It says next to him was Shalem, the son of Halla hash leader of half of the district of Jerusalem, he and his daughters made repairs. In building for the Lord, it's important to take your family with you will see in verse 12, there's this man named Shalem, who is described as a ruler over the half of the district of Jerusalem. And we're given this interesting little tidbit about him as he goes to work on the wall, it says that he takes with him, his daughters, this would have been very unusual, because the work of repairing the wall would have been very strenuous. And also at times have been very dangerous. It wasn't common for women to be up there working. So why would he take his daughters with him? Perhaps he didn't have any sons. Or maybe they were helping their father in a way that was extraordinary. They were providing for his his work with their own personal financial means. Or maybe they were doing some type of side job. They were taking water supplies or food to those who were on the wall. But regardless, they are mentioned here as participating in this great project. And what it shows us is that the work of the Lord is is so important that it's not just for the leaders or the elders or the the strong men, the people that we would normally put into that category. This work was so necessary that he took with him, his family. The other day, I needed to get some supplies from the hardware and some of the kids wanted to come with me. So we made our way into the store and we were looking for some PVC pipe, we needed about an eight foot section. And I found the aisle where it was located, and I pulled it off of the shelf. And the girls asked if they could help me carry it. So we started walking back to the front of the store. And after a couple of steps, they said, Daddy, we've got it, we can carry it on our own. So I gave him I gave him the chance. And I was walking out in front, they're walking behind, one on the front end of the eight foot pole, the other on the back end. And they were doing great. Except they kept stopping so that one of them could put their mouth in the hole and say something to the other who was holding it up to their ear. Sometimes we leave kids out because we think they're too young, they're they're going to be a distraction. They always get in the way. This is something that I need to be able to focus. And I need to give it my my attention. And it's going to take way longer if I bring them along if I allow them to help. But we learn is that our service to God is not just about our own actions and convictions, part of growing in the Lord is taking others with us. It's helping those around us and that starts with our children with our families. And Hebrews chapter 11. In verse seven, it says By faith Noah, being warned by God concerning events, as yet unseen, in reverent fear constructed an arc for the saving of his household. No, it is moved by this reverent, godly fear. He's been told by the Lord, that He is supposed to prepare this enormous vessel. And the Hebrew writer says that the purpose of that was for the saving of himself. No, not the saving of him and his wife. But it was for the saving of his household. Noah brings his sons and their wives into this and they are preserved. And they are saved. Our Bible reading and our study is important. But so is reading the Bible with our kids. When we come to service, it's important that we are encouraged that we're edified that we learn and that we pay attention. But it's also important to see what our kids are learning about. Ask them what they're studying. Questions in the car, like, what was something interesting that you heard in the sermon? Or quiz them about something that you heard and say, Did you listen to that fact about that man and his daughters, but engaging with them in a way where we're we're not just bringing them to church, but we're connecting with them about the things that we're doing here. As Moses told the children of Israel, he said, teach them when you're in your house, when you walk by the way, when you lie down, and when you rise up. Finally, when it's time to build, we must do more than required. Do more than required, look at verse for what it says. And next to them. Mera moth, the son of your raija, the son of cause, made repairs, and then down in verse 21. And after him, mera moth, the son of your raija, the son of cause, repaired another section, mera moth is given a section of the wall to work on, and apparently he completes it. And then later on, he is given another section to work on. We see this also with the two co ites in verse five and verse 27. How many of us are working on the wall and we finish our portion? We get done and we kind of look around and people are still working and we think, what am I going to do? I'm tired. I'm done with my portion. I don't want to carry anyone else's weight or have to go and pick up the slack for someone who is falling behind. But these men go and they continue to work. They do more than what was asked or required. When we moved into our house in Hendersonville, we had a number of brothers mothers and sisters that came and helped us. And after the truck had been completely empty, there was a couple of guys that came up. And they asked me and my wife, they said, some of the most beautiful words that you can hear when you're working on a project like that. They said, What else can we do? And I'm thinking well, that the truck is empty, there's nothing left inside. And they're they're looking at all these boxes, and all the stuff scattered everywhere. They were looking to continue to help, I think we put them on putting the beds together. And I can say, no, nothing has collapsed, since we've been there. But this is such an important attitude. And really sets us apart from the rest of the world, doing more than the bare minimum, doing more than what's asked of us. And if we take that, that attitude, that approach to every aspect of our life, if we do more than what's required in our marriage, that is a relationship that's going to grow. If we do more than what we're asked to do at work, we're going to quickly be seen as a person who is trustworthy and respected. And if we do more than what is required in our service, to the Lord, we will be imitating the very character of Christ. Instead of saying, Can I be done? It should be where else can you use me? What else can I help with? In Acts chapter 20, and verse 35, Paul was a constant example of service and love for others. And he was speaking to the elders in Ephesus, and he said, I have shown you in every way, by laboring like this, that you must support the weak. And remember the words of the Lord Jesus, that He said It is more blessed to give than to receive giving, rather than receiving, looking to help rather than to be helped. That was Paul's attitude. So when we're working on whatever task, it may be working in the service of the Lord, we need to remember that we need everyone to help all hands on deck, that none of the work in the body of Christ is unimportant that it's beneath us, to bring our our families to bring those around us and include them in the work. And then finally have that attitude of doing more than what's required. We're going to close tonight with a song of encouragement. It's an opportunity for any who may be here to respond to the Lord's invitation if there's something that we can do to support or help you in your walk with the Lord. Or if you need to become a Christian. Now's a perfect opportunity. There's something we can do to assist please come down to the front as we stand in scene


Transcribed by https://otter.ai