Conrad Harkrider  00:03
Good morning. It's great to be with all of you. Thank you for joining us for our worship if you want to be opening your Bibles to Mark the third chapter Mark chapter three. The work and the ministry of Jesus lasted for a little over three years. But during that short time, the Lord came into contact with 1000s of people, people from all different walks of life from different backgrounds, people who are young and old, rich and poor, powerful and seemingly insignificant. But those who are closest to the Lord, those who saw his miracles, up close, up front had a first row seat, those who are right there for his teaching, were his disciples. In Luke chapter six, it tells us that Jesus went up on the mountain and he prayed all night. And then he selected these men, to be his apostles, His ambassadors, they would be firsthand witnesses to his teaching His miracles. And then ultimately, they would give testimony to the entire world of His life, His death, and His resurrection. We have a few details from the Gospel accounts in the New Testament about these men, but when you love to just read a full biography, when you love to know all of the information about where they came from, and who they were, and what their families were like, and ultimately, the work that they did for the Lord. This morning, I'd like for us to study and consider one of the most prominent apostles. And despite his significant position, we have no recorded sermons that he preached. We're not told of any of the miracles that he performed. In fact, the only time he has mentioned by himself is in the book of Acts when we are told that he was put to death. I want to look at James, or as he was known by the Lord, the son of thunder, Read with me and Mark chapter three, beginning in verse 12. Mark Three beginning in verse 13. It says, And he went up on the mountain and call to him, those he himself wanted, and they came to him, and he appointed 12, that they might be with him and that he might send them out, to preach, and to have power to heal sicknesses and to cast out demons. Simon, to whom he gave the name, Peter, James, the son of Zebedee, and John, his brother, the brother of James, to whom he gave the name Bo energies that his sons of thunder, Andrew, Phillip, Bartholomew, Matthew, Thomas, James, the son of Alphaeus, Thaddaeus, Simon, the Canaanite, and Judas Iscariot, who also betrayed him. Do you have a favorite apostle? One that you connect with that really stands out? In your mind? There's a personality test that some of you may have done, where you answer various questions and based upon your responses, you're aligned with a disciple. Are you more like a Peter? A, Paul? Are you a John or a Matthew? We know a lot about Peter. We have numerous examples and stories about things that he did. We know quotes from his mouth things that he said to others. And to the Lord, you could preach or you could teach a whole quarter on the life and the work of Peter. We know about John we love John. We love is gospel. We love his epistles. We admire his final work, the book of Revelation. We know quite a bit about John But how about James? James, the son of thunder? Didn't James, write that book? At the very end of the New Testament? No, that was a that's a different James. That's the Lord's brother, who was a late comer, a late disciple. But James, I would like to submit to you that James the Apostle was far more prominent than we often realize. And far more important to the early church that maybe we understand or appreciate. When we look at the information we're given about him and his life, the more I read and learn about him, the more impressed I become. We see he played a critical role in the ministry of Christ. The first thing to notice about James is his position among the 12. The list that we just read here, and Mark chapter three is a listing of the 12 apostles of Jesus is not on random list. The order that the gospel writers put these names in, is significant. In all four of these lists in Mark chapter three, in Matthew 10, in Luke six, and in Acts chapter one, in all four of these lists, Peter, his name is mentioned first. And that makes sense because of his role in the early church. He was a spokesman, he stood up and preached the first gospel sermon, he had a tremendous amount of influence. But notice who is second here and Mark chapter three, what name comes right after Peter, we sing the song Jesus called them one by one, Peter, Andrew, James and John. But in Mark's account, it's Peter. And then James, in two of the four lists of the apostles, Andrews name comes second. That is, presumably because he is the brother of Peter so they are grouped together. But in all four of the lists, James is either listed second as he is here in Mark chapter three, or he is third. He is always in the top three. He had a place of special prominence among the 12 apostles. And Acts chapter 12. And verse one, were told about the death of James and it says about that time Herod, the king laid violent hands on some who belong to the church. He killed James, the brother of John with the sword. And when he saw that it please the Jews, he proceeded to arrest Peter also. Remember that in the book of Acts, this is not the first persecution that arises against the church here in chapter 12. And chapter seven, Stephen was making a defense and they picked up stones to kill him. In chapter eight, we're told that there was a great persecution that arose against the church and the disciples were scattered all throughout Judea, and Samaria. But here in chapter 12, this is no longer just a grassroots type of persecution. It's not just the Jewish leaders who are attacking God's people. But now the government is joining in the king has stretched out his hand. And the text says that Herod laid violent hands upon the church. This is Herod Agrippa, a grandson of Herod the Great. Herod the Great the one who tried to kill Jesus when he was a baby. And here in the book of Acts, Luke, almost in a matter of fact, way says that he killed James with the sword meaning that he was beheaded in the same way that John the Baptist, that his life came to an end. And after seeing the response from the Jews and how it satisfied them, the also arrest Peter, I'd like for you to think about the question of why was James arrested first Why not take Peter? Why not go after Peter first, but instead James is taken. And then, Peter, if there was a group of people that were stirring up trouble, there was a movement that was starting to gain popularity and you are trying to put a stop to it. You wanted to extinguish it and put it to bed? Who would? Who would it be that you would try to go after? Who would you try to take out of the way or remove from their place? You might go after the one who is most vocal. Who is the most visible the one who is stirring up the most trouble to try to send a message. Aside from Judas, James is the only apostle whose death is recorded in the Scriptures. And he was targeted. Because of his great significance. And his importance, Herod didn't just choose one of the 12. He went after one that was a pillar that was critical to the early church. He had a significant position among the 12 Have you ever thought about James and John's family? We learned from the Scripture is that he came from a prominent family. In Mark chapter one and verse 19. When Jesus calls James, it says and going on a little further, he saw James the son of Zebedee, and John his brother, who were in their boat mending the nets. And immediately he called them and they left their father's evety in the boat with their hired servants, and followed him. In this first encounter with James in the book of Mark, we see that he willingly leaves his occupation. As a fisherman, he leaves his father behind, and he goes to follow Jesus. Mark tells us that James is the son of Zebedee. Zebedee owns a fishing business with his sons, it was apparently successful enough that they were able to employ hired servants, verse 20. Notice that James is almost always mentioned before his brother, John. James, as mentioned before, John, that probably indicates that he was the elder of the two brothers. But it also shows that John was known. Through his association and connection to James, John is James brother. It's kind of like when I was going to school I had two older brothers that went to the schools before I did and whenever I would get into a class with a teacher, or a coach that had already had one of my brothers, they would say, You are the brother of Ross. Or even if they were introducing me, they would say this is Jay Dee's brother, almost as if my identity was shaped through them. The apostle John was the brother of James everyone knows who James is. We also know something about his mother. By comparing Matthew chapter 27 And verse 56, and Mark 16, in verse one, we find that Salome is the wife of Zebedee, and that she was with the Mary's when they came to anoint the body of Jesus. Matthew chapter 27, in verse 55, tells us that these women had come down from Galilee. They were traveling with the Lord and they were providing for Him out of their own personal needs. So this is a family affair. Two of the sons are apostles of the Lord and their mother is a part of the traveling band that is helping to provide for the needs of this ministry. There's also a reason to believe that Zebedee, his family was known to the highest levels of Jewish authority. In John chapter 18 And verse six in verse 16, it says, But Peter stood outside At the door. So the other disciple, speaking of John, who was known to the high priest went out and spoke to the servant girl who kept watch at the door and brought Peter in. It says that John is able to get Peter into the courtyard because he was known to the high priest, perhaps evety is a Levite. And his family has some type of connection to the high priest and his family. But regardless, this is a well known, well established family who has now become part an integral part of the Gospel story. He came from a prominent family James is also a significant figure in the ministry of Christ because of his proximity to Jesus, he was able to get unrestricted access to the Lord. In Mark's gospel, James and his brother John are two of the first disciples that are called they are with Jesus from the very beginning. And as more and more men are added to the group, we see that there were a few who who were given special access, who are invited to be joined to the Lord in a very intimate way. They were in his inner, his inner circle of disciples. In Mark chapter five and verse 37, when Jesus goes to heal the daughter of Jairus, it says that he did not let anyone follow him, except Peter, James, and John, the brother of James, there it is, again, John is referred to in his association or link to James, but these three are given the privilege to be in the room. To see Jesus approach this lifeless body, and then through his incredible power to raise her from the dead. In Matthew chapter 17, in verse one, when Jesus is transfigured on the mountain, again, it is only these three that are permitted to come with him, Peter, James, and John, and it's in this experience that they see Moses and Elijah talking with Jesus. Can you imagine trying to explain that to someone after they've come down off of the mountain? Well, what what did you see when you were up there? Well, we saw the greatest teacher of Israel, standing with the greatest prophet of Israel, talking with the Messiah, whose face was shining, as bright as the sun. This might have been the most amazing sight that human eyes had ever seen on Earth, and James. James is there to witness it. In the garden is Jesus agonized over his approaching suffering and his persecution? He asked His disciples to stay by his side to watch and to pray. Mark, chapter 14 In verse 33, tells us that he took with him Peter, James, and John. In his moment of greatest trouble and distress, the Lord chose these three men to be nearby, they were his closest friends. James certainly held a special place among the disciples, and even among the early church, and his influence and the impact of his life continues to impact people even today. Why did Jesus choose this man? What was it about him that Jesus saw, as as useful as something that he could shape and mold and fashion? For his purposes? Well, first of all, we see that James was a man who was full of passion that nicknamed the son of thunder, the Sons of Thunder that he gave to Peter or to James, and to John, that name fit them well because they had a very fiery, a very zealous and passionate disposition for the Lord. We're told of an account in Luke chapter nine, when Jesus goes into a village of the Samaritans, he's trying to preach and teach in their towns. And it says that they were unwilling to receive him. That they were not ready to hear the things that he had to say they essentially show him the door, they asked him to leave. And after seeing this, in Luke, chapter nine, in verse 54, it says, And when his disciples James, and John saw it, they said, Lord, do you want us to tell fire to come down from heaven and consume them? They see what has happened to the Lord. They see how he's been treated, how these people have responded to him, and they've come up with a suitable course of action. They say, Let's fry this place. Let's burn it to the ground. What are they thinking? What's going on in their minds. When I was in first grade, I was at school and I got into a little scuffle. Not a fight more, just some pushing back and forth. But the incident landed me in the principal's office. And when my parents came to pick me up, and they were asking me about what happened, I told them, I was acting out of self defense, that I had not actually started the whole occurrence. And when the word got to my grandfather, and he learned about what had happened, he told my mom and dad that he was going to go up to the school to talk with the principal. And to let him know that he was going to find an attorney to help investigate this situation and look into the practices of this local school to see how they were managing their students and to make sure that this type of bullying and effort never happened again. Thankfully, my parents kind of walked him back from that. And I calmed him down, said, It's okay. he'll, he'll be alright. But he was ready to take them to court. James and John are so upset with the way that Jesus has been treated, that they are ready to take matters into their own hands to call down fire from heaven. And they would have had precedent for this in Second Kings, chapter one, we're told about King, a Messiah who sent 50 men to arrest Elijah for the words that he had spoke. And Elijah sees this troop of soldiers coming and he says, If I am a man of God, then let fire come down from heaven and consume you. And after a Uzziah gets word of what's occurred, he sends another 50. And the same thing happens to them, fire comes down and consumes them. It's finally with the third group of 50, that the commander falls down before Elijah and begs for His grace, and mercy. But James and John are ready to take a page right out of Elijah's book, even if they've never done anything like this, themselves, but Jesus. Jesus rebukes them. Jesus did not come to destroy men's lives, but to save them. And ironically, it would be one of these brothers who would go down in Acts chapter eight, after Philip had preached the Word and Sumeria, the brother of James John would go and he would help establish these people in their faith. The Lord is looking for people with passion. James and John were misguided in their response, but their zeal was evident and like John the Baptist, they were outspoken. They were impatient with people who were committing sin. And the question application for us is to think about do we have that same thunderous, fervent desire to stand up for the Lord? When someone rejects or mocks or humiliates our Lord does that. Does that bother us? Does that stir our spirit within us? Or do we act with indifference? Acceptance or maybe even approval? Reading through a book that has been recommended that everyone has said is is just wonderful. We're reading through it and all of a sudden, we come across colorful language, references to the Lord's name in a disrespectful or irreverent way. How does it affect us? Does it bother us? Does it cause us to be filled with this righteous? indignation? We're watching a movie or a show that has sexual references or Crude Behavior? Do we get fired up with that righteous wrath that James and John displayed? Or do we just sit back passively allowing insults to be hurled against our Lord, against our Lord James was a man of passion for the Lord. And we see through his life that Christ was able to take that zeal and to combine it with with wisdom with knowledge so that he could use him in his service. We see that James also learned humility. Throughout his life, and his time with the Lord James learned humility. There's an interesting account in Mark chapter 10, about a question that James and John approached Jesus with. In Mark chapter 10, and verse 37. It says, they said to him, grant us to sit one at your right hand and one at your left in your glory. These two are already in the inner circle of Jesus. But now they want to have the ultimate place of importance. They want to sit at the right hand, and the left hand in his glory. You can see their boldness, their audacity to come and to make a request like this. Jesus responds with you don't know what you're asking for. You don't know what you're you're saying here? Are you able to drink the cup that I'm about to drink? Are you able to be baptized with the baptism that I am about to undergo and without even pausing to think about all that's involved with that? The brothers answer with the affirmative, we are able. We are able. before I had kids, I remember being around other people who had children. And we'd be at their home and the kids would be getting worked up and they'd be climbing all over the furniture. And I remember thinking to myself, I will never let my kids do that. And now that couches in my house, some days there are handstands being performed somersaults, trampoline exercises. And you realize that teaching and training children is not a black and white exercise. It's a process and through that process, we learn to be more understanding, more patient, more flex, flexible. At this point in his life, James thinks he knows what he wants, he wants to sit at the Lord's right hand. He wants a position of greatness in the kingdom. But Jesus teaches him that greatness doesn't come through sitting on a throne, but rather it's found in service. James desired a crown of glory. And the Lord offered him a cup of suffering. He wanted to be first. And indeed he would be first as he was martyred, the first martyr among the apostles. James would be arrested by Herod about 14 years after this. But he had learned the lesson of humility. He didn't deny his faith. He didn't run from the suffering. He didn't turn away or change his convictions, because he had learned what it meant to follow the Lord. And in the end, he was ready To suffer. James is arrested and put to death by Herod. And his life comes to an end. Peter is also arrested. And the book of Acts tells us that there was this fervent prayer that was offered on Peter's behalf that the Christians were praying for him diligently. And in miraculous event, the Lord sends an angel to come into the prison at night and bring peter out to rescue him from the hand of Herod. And the question that is so evident that is just right there in front of us is why did the Lord not save James? Why did he deliver Peter and allow James to die? We talked about how he was a vital part of the early church, how he had seen in witness things that no one else had the privilege of seeing. He was uniquely positioned to take this gospel and to share that message throughout the world. And yet his life was cut short. We went to a friend's house and they were showing us around the house that they had just built. And there was this large wooden beam that was in the great room. And they told us that that came from a tree and oak tree on their farm. And now it was hung up in the main room, it was there on display, this beautiful piece of wood that would be in full view for them to see and to enjoy for years to come. But not every piece of that tree made it into the great room. Some pieces no doubt were too small. They were used for lesser things like building a fire or cooking. I think sometimes we envision our lives like a beautiful polished beam in the great room, we see it as strong as healthy as well taken care of for years and years to come. We want to be in that prominent position. But maybe the Lord intends to use us for something else, something less desirable. After seeing what happened to James, do you think that the church was praying a little more fervently on behalf of Peter? After seeing what happened to his brother, do you think John approached his his preaching and his work with more sincerity with more diligence with more zeal when we suffer patiently and service to the Lord God can use those situations to benefit those around us in ways that we could never imagine. And as Paul said in Romans 14 In verse eight, whether we live or die, we are the Lords. I hope you have a little better appreciation for this man and his work his life. His influence continues to reverberate even today. We see the passion and the desire that he had for serving God. We're gonna close this morning with the song to encourage any who are here if you're not a disciple of the Lord. Don't wait another day. Don't allow the opportunity to go by to confess Jesus as the Christ, commit your life to Him and begin walking that lifelong journey. If there's something that we can do to help or encourage you please come down to the front as we stand and see


Transcribed by https://otter.ai