Good morning. It's good to see everyone here today. As has been mentioned, we're a little more sparse than, than maybe normal. But our prayers are with those that are unable to be here. And I'm certainly glad that you are able to be here I think we can be encouraged together as we worship. And we have been, I think we can be further encouraged by God's word. So, it was last year, one of my repeated, scheduled times to speak came about a few of those happened over the last couple of years. And one of those happened when I was assigned the topic of Jesus FULL OF TRUTH, actually preached a meeting with Shawn Bain, where we looked at Jesus FULL of truth, and Jesus full of grace. And Shawn did an excellent job that day in that that meeting. But it made me think about how I would articulate Jesus is full of grace. And I don't think I could preach a Shawn vanes sermon if I tried. So this is my articulation of that topic, Jesus full of grace. Normally, I'll try to introduce a sermon with a story or a thought. But I like to simply review John's introduction. As we jump into the sermon, John has a great introduction that grabs our attention and grabs our mind. And so I'll simply be using a borrowed introduction, I'll use John's. In John one and verse one, it says, In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God. He was in the beginning with God. All things were made through Him and without any without Him was not anything made. That was made. In the beginning, in the beginning of time, before things came into existence. Before there was time itself. There was the word. Greeks looked at this word as the reason behind the universal that was held the universe together the logic or reason, the power, that unmoved mover that held the universe in check. And so that would have made sense that the word was in the beginning. And here it says, The Word was with God. And the Word was God, God is that reason, that logic, that force that created all things and so that would have made sense. But when we come to John chapter one and verse 14, it says, And the Word became flesh, to the Greek mind, and to the Jewish mind, that's where it stops making sense. The idea that this power behind the universe that was created, all things actually became a man, a human, and took on flesh. Well, then we come to John 114, through 18, as I mentioned, the Word became flesh. So let's read this passage now. And the Word became flesh and dwelt among us. And we have seen his glory, glory as of the only Son from the Father full of grace and truth. John bore witness about him and cried out, this was he of whom I said, He who comes after me ranks before me because he was before me. Verse 16, for from his fullness we ever received grace upon grace, For the Law was given through Moses, grace and truth came through Jesus Christ. No one has ever seen God, the only God, who is at the father side, he has made him known. That last sentence, I'll maybe begin there, he says, that no one has ever seen God. We cannot see God in the Old Testament, the truth is, they could not see God. We cannot see God with our visible eye. But there was a, an attempt an effort which God contributed to to, to connect with God, to be able to experience him and so there was a tabernacle that was built that held the presence of God. And when it was constructed, there was clouds around it, and glory of the Lord descended upon that tabernacle, it was his presence. That was something they could visibly see, even though they could not visibly see God. And then we have the temple, and much the same thing happened. The temple was the dwelling place of God. But now we come to John one in verse 14, and we see that this visible presence of God is the Word and the Word became visible, became flesh, and dwelt among us the word Being tabernacled, the presence of God in the tabernacle in the temple is now seen in Jesus Christ. And it is through Jesus that we can fully see the Father. And we can comprehend Him. The text mentions a couple of characteristics of God. And we could go through any number of them how you would describe God that was seen in Jesus. But the two that it uses here are grace, and truth. Jesus was full, it says, of grace, or and truth. And these are the revelation of God, they reveal God and his glory. Through these characteristics. Jesus is full of truth. You might think about that cup, if you're pouring water into it, you know, it's not full yet not full yet. And then it's just overflowing. That's the picture of Jesus and truth. There is no gap. There's no impurity, there's no lie, there's no fault. So Jesus is full of truth. What he says is true and right. Truth is that which aligns with reality. It is consistent within itself. And Jesus is full of truth. And the text also says that Jesus is full of grace. Grace is unmerited favor. It's not returning a kindness to someone else, simply because they did something kind. But grace is extending of yourself that kindness when it was not deserved, they did not begin that process. But it's something that you give to them and it's undeserved. This is not a wage. As in someone works for me X hours, I give them this amount of wage that's returned, for what is due but graces beyond that different than that, it is giving even when they did not work, they did not earn. And it is a giving of oneself, Jesus Christ as the picture of God is full of grace. So I'd like to think for just a few moments this morning, in what ways was Jesus full of grace? Now this is a lesson we could talk about for a year. We could go through almost every example of Jesus life and say, This is an illustration or example of Jesus full of grace, I do not plan on talking for a year this morning, I'll try to remember that there is a limitation to the time we have so we'll be sampling some things that we see in Jesus life, that demonstrate the fact that he was full of grace. Jesus was full of grace as a friend of sinners, as a friend of sinners. And Luke seven, verses 33 through 34. Jesus acknowledges some things that had been said about him. Jesus could not win with his critics of John the Baptist, he did not eat and drink and they said, of him that he's demon possessed. But Jesus did it eat and drink, and they were still a critic of him. They said, he's a glutton and a drunk. Again, Jesus could not win with his critics, no matter what he did, whether he ate and drank like John, or did not even drink like John the Baptist, or whether he did he didn't drink. But related to those heinous crimes of being a glutton and a drunk, notice what it says next. And he is a friend of sinners, a friend of sinners. That was the context in which he did eat and drink he ate and drank with sinners. Now to the Jewish mind, this would have been anathema to accursed Jews who separated themselves from those that were sinful and really, that could describe many religious people can it? You can see the mindset behind that idea that we don't want to be around sinners. Our goal is to be pure and clean. Why would we be around sinners? Jesus, this one is acting just like them. He's a sinner themselves himself. They might say, Jesus is a friend of sinners. But what these Pharisees and Jews criticized Jesus for and saw a problem. Those that were befriended by Jesus saw His grace and His mercy. Those that were sinners, those that were outcast, those of which society had pushed to the side and said, You're not valuable. You're not important. You're not as you should be. Jesus reached out out to them. And Jesus demonstrated that he was full of grace by being a friend to sinners. Jesus did not make friends based upon what they could do for him, in that how we make friends, sometimes, this is a popular kid in class. And maybe if I'm friends with them, I can be in, in the crowd that everyone likes or this person's a sports figure, I want to hang out with them. Or I simply like this individual. Maybe this person can help me earn some money, I want to get connected with him. But Jesus did not make friends based upon what they could do for him. He was a friend, with the outcasts with the sinners with tax collectors who were looked down upon as money grubbers and those that were taking from those that had little themselves. They were the greedy ones, with prostitutes. Jesus was friends with those who were outcast. We see an example of this in Luke chapter five, just a couple of chapters earlier. And Luke chapter five, Jesus came past a tax booth and he said to Levi or Matthew, He said to him, Follow me. And this sinner, this tax collector, got up and follow Jesus. And then in Luke five in verse 27, it says this, And livan made him a great feast in his house, there was a large company of tax collectors and others reclining at table with them. And the Pharisees and the scribes grumble that his disciples saying, Why do you eat and drink with tax collectors and sinners? Jesus answered them, those who are well have no need of a physician. But those who are sick, I have not come to call the righteous but sinners, to repentance. Jesus ate with tax collectors centers, outcasts, not. And this should be noted not in order to pursue sin, to join in any kind of sinful activity. That's not what Jesus did. But in order that he might provide healing for them. Don't you know those that are outcasts, and sinners are searching for meaning and purpose and wholeness and their life. And Jesus could offer that very thing. Jesus full of grace reached out to all manner of people and did not exclude any true seeker. This includes both the rich and the poor. Those that were physically sick, demon possessed those that were well, religious outcasts, and religious elites. He met with those that the Jews excluded. But also with the Jews themselves with Simon and Nicodemus, Jesus was open to all he was a friend of sinners. And I think we see in this Jesus full of grace, not because of what someone could give to him, but Jesus was a giving person himself gracious, and who even associated with and I think we can learn a lot from him Jesus full of grace, Jesus was full of grace by healing every disease by healing every disease. In Matthew chapter four, in verses 23 through 24, we see Jesus mission in Galilee. And this is a summary statement. In many examples in the gospels, we see specific examples of when Jesus healed but here's a summary of what Jesus did in Galilee. It says he went through all Galilee, teaching in their synagogues and proclaiming the gospel of the kingdom, and healing every disease, and every affliction among the people. So his fame spread throughout all Syria, and they brought him all the sick, those afflicted with various diseases and pains, those oppressed by demons, those having seizures and paralytics. And he healed them. Jesus went throughout the region of Galilee. And notice the text says that he did three things as he went, first of all, he was teaching in their synagogues, those that were Jews, he was pointing to the Old Testament scriptures and showing the fulfillment of those things which would ultimately come about in him. He was also proclaiming the gospel of the kingdom of God's reign over all things, the good news that God reign, and Jesus proclaim that to all people, telling them to prepare themselves for the coming of the Kingdom of God. And He healed every disease. In a company, you often have departments. You got a finance department and a research department partment that, that puts out the product. And these are often separate things. We don't need to think about what Jesus was doing here as completely separate departments separated from one another. Jesus was seeking to bring about and teach others the kingdom of God. And he did that with his words. But he also did that with his miracles. That was not just a separate thing that he did. It was part of the whole process of proclaiming the gospel of bringing wholeness to people. He illustrated the wholeness that he could bring to one's life and one's heart. through physical healing. We see that in many places, John particularly points to Jesus miracles as signs as things that pointed to something beyond what was just happening there. For example, in John eight and verse 12, Jesus would tell the Pharisees there that I am the light of the world. Whoever follows me will not walk in darkness, but will have the light of life. Later in verses 31 and 32. He says that, that the truth should continue in my word, you will know the truth and the truth will make you free. This light here was not a physical light emanating from Jesus, but it was the truth that he would speak. It was the enlightening of one's mind. And Jesus was the light of the world, while the Pharisees didn't like when he said that, and they didn't like any of this further discussion about Jesus and who he was and how he was before Abraham. And they picked up stones with the intention to kill him, no doubt. But Jesus escaped. We see in John eight, verse 59, what's in the next chapter in John nine, where we see that there is a man born blind without any side he cannot see anything, but Jesus provides healing. By giving him sight, this man who had never seen he was born blind, Jesus gave sight. And that man was able to acknowledge Jesus as the Christ. He was enlightened not only with his physical eyes, but with his understanding as well. Those Pharisees and Jews around him may have had physical sight, but they could not see the truth of Jesus. And so they cast out anyone that would acknowledges Jesus, including this man born blind, himself. Jesus went about healing every disease, he brought wholeness to people, and he proclaimed what God was doing. And he did that through his words, and through his healing. He brought what was good for others, and he was full of grace. When he acted in this way, the man born blinds, didn't really deserve to be blind, those that are sick don't deserve those things. But they also haven't. This man born blind didn't do anything for Jesus, Jesus extended grace to him, mercy to him. When he saw his plight, and the trouble that he faced, Jesus, full of grace, went about healing every disease. Jesus was full of grace when he became poor, when he became poor, and we see that Jesus gave of himself as Paul encourages generosity to the Corinthians in Second Corinthians eight, and nine, we see that he points to the example of Jesus in Second Corinthians eight and verse nine, for you know the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, that though he was rich, yet for your sake, he became poor, so that you by his poverty might become rich. This is not a legal transaction between a servant in which someone has worked X number of years and Jesus pays them well. But rather, Jesus took what was his and demonstrated Grace unmerited favor by giving of his wealth to those that were poor. When we hear about riches and poverty, we automatically think about physical monetary things. But Jesus was not dealing here exclusively with some kind of monetary physical aspect. When we think about Jesus And the riches that he had. We see, for example, in Philippians, chapter two that he was at the right hand of God. He was in the presence of God, and he joined in an equality, a status and a state with God there. But he gave all of that up. And what did he do? When he gave that up? He became a man. Not a king figure or a warrior figure that would rule over the nations but a lowly man, a servant. He didn't come as the, the owner of the penthouse, but the worker in the basement. He came in order to serve others. And he demonstrated obedience, he was not giving the orders. But he was obeying. And the type of obedience and the length of his obedience is seen in the fact that he died on the crawls. A symbol of shame, and one that was despised by all in the Roman world, yes, even that kind of death. Jesus gave all of that up and became poor. And why did he do that? He did that so that those that didn't deserve it could be rich themselves, so that they could have Well, Jesus humbled Himself humbled Himself, and John chapter eight, John chapter eight. I've got the wrong verse there. So I apologize for that. Okay, let me look at my notes. Okay. Yes, Matthew 19. As I said, with my Bible class material, I often put intentional errors in there just so I'm testing you so you can find it. Now, that's not true. This was not intentional, but an error nonetheless. Matthew 19, Matthew 19 In verse 16. Here, a rich young man are rich with monetary wealth came to Jesus asking what must I do to have eternal life and verse 16. And Jesus first of all, points him to obedience to the law. And the man says, Well, I've done all of these things in the law, What do I lack? And then Jesus points them to the passions of his heart, and He instructs him to give away all of his possessions in verse 21. But the text says, The young man went away sorrowful, went away sorrowful. And so we see that Jesus offers wealth to this young man, eternal life. And he offers this eternal life so that he might be rich. So in Matthew 16, and verse 29, that's where the 29 and 30 so I got half of this verse, right? Okay, Matthew 16, verse 29, it says, and everyone who has left houses or brothers or sisters, or father or mother or children or lands for my namesake, will receive a hundredfold and will inherit eternal life. But many who are first will be last and the last. First, Jesus gave of himself so that others might be rich. But the goal was not to be physically rich. In fact, we may have to give up some of those things so that we can gain true wealth, the wealth that is more valuable than then all of the world combined, and that is our soul, eternal life. The grace of Jesus can be seen and His love and His sacrificial attitude as he gave willingly of himself for others. Jesus was full of grace, because he died for the ungodly, because he died for the ungodly. In Romans five and verse six, we see the greatest demonstration of the grace of God and all of Scripture, and that is the death of Jesus. Romans five in verse six, it says this, For while we were still weak at the right time, Christ died for the ungodly. For one will scarcely die for a righteous person, though perhaps for a good person, one would dare even to die. But God shows His love for us and that while we were still sinners, Christ died for us. This is the definition of grace, isn't it? And when make sense in our minds, if one would give their life for one that was good, and even that would be hard to imagine if you would give your life for one that was worth it. One that deserved it. But Jesus it says gave his life not for the worthy, but for the ungodly, for sinners, for those that were weak, and could not save themselves later in this passage, it's going to refer to those that were enemies of God. enemies of God. Jesus died for the ungodly. But God it says, shows His love for us and that while we were still sinners, Christ died for us. There it uses the word love, but God shows His love for us. I think you could put just about any character trait or attributes in there. And it would describe what takes place because the cross is the greatest demonstration of God's character. But God shows His mercy for us. God shows His compassion for us, and that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. God shows His justice for us. And yes, is his grace. God's shows his grace for us, and that while we were still sinners, Christ died for us. Not because we deserved it, not because we were worthy, but because of the grace of God. And that's why Paul could say in the past is that that was read earlier, but for the grace of God, I am what I am. If it wasn't for God's grace, where would I be? Where would I be? We see the grace of God here. In Ephesians, one and verse seven, it says, In Him, we have redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of our trespasses, according to the riches of His grace, which He lavished upon us and all wisdom and insight, we can be redeemed from sin, and the penalty of death, because of the blood of Jesus Christ. And that, my friends, is a picture of lavish wealth, riches of grace that have been poured upon us, in Jesus Christ. Yes, Jesus was full of grace, and he demonstrated that most fully when he died for the ungodly, we might also add that this man was innocent himself wholly impure in all things. And that was the sacrifice that was made for us. Amazing grace, how sweet the sound that saved a wretch like me. Well, when we consider Jesus and the fact that he was full of grace, we are called to imitate Jesus example. I think there's a lot we can learn about this grace filled savior. Now, there's a lot of things we can't do, right? So we can't, we can't necessarily heal others. We don't have the omniscience, the all knowledge, all the power of Jesus. But there are things that we can do. First one I want to consider is the fact that we can include others. Jesus was a friend of sinners, can the same thing be said of us? I'm not talking about joining in sin with others. I made that clear with Jesus. And I want to make it clear here as well. But I am talking about fostering relationships with others so that we can be a blessing in their life, so that we can point them to what is good and right. And Romans 12, in verse 16, it says, Live in harmony with one another. Do not be haughty, but associate with the lowly. Never be wise in your own sight. We get wise in our own sight, don't we? We think highly of ourselves, I can associate with those that are like me, but not this person over here. You know, when we are faced with people that are different, what kind of things happen? There's someone that's different that comes into the crowd maybe moves into the neighborhood, there's a new student at school. Well, many people whisper Do you see that person? See what they're like? They maybe avoid that person just simply different. And maybe they even take it a step further and they laugh it avoid or intimidate. I don't want you changing our way of life. You're indifferent and you need to get out of here. Go back to where you belong. But the gospel calls us to something different. We are to be welcoming To all, we would have open arms of love, not a closed fist of bigotry. Let us be inclusive of others. And so when there are people from different nationalities, you may say this neighborhood has always looked like me. And I've been around people that look like me. But now someone from India or Pakistan moves in, how are you going to treat them? Jesus included others, will we do the same? someone of a different race? What about someone that doesn't have your same economic background, or they simply have a different culture altogether, we tend to close the circle and say, I want to be around people like me, but the gospel calls us to something else, something different. We need to be inclusive, inviting, welcoming, not exclusive, divisive, and cold.


Transcribed by https://otter.ai