Jeremy Sweets  00:04
Good morning. Good to see everyone here today. It's certainly a good day to worship our God to give praise to Him. And so I appreciate so much the fact that you're here with me to do that. We have several visitors with us and I appreciate the fact that you're here to worship with this congregation. The shad burns are with us let's JDS parents and David actually taught me when I was Middle School in high school growing up in Lawrenceburg, Kentucky, so I've always appreciated their, their family, we have visitors from out of town out of country, we're glad that you're here. Thankful for your presence as well. We're thankful for each and every one of you, members included, we're glad that you're here. And we're happy to be able to worship God this morning. truth matters, truth matters. Maybe I don't have to prove that point. But we see it all over the place. truth matters on the playground, doesn't it? When boys and girls are gathered around playing a game and the rules of that game matter and whether this person was out or not, you'll see arguments about truth. Truth matters. truth matters in the courthouse. It matters as evidence is presented and a jury gathers around and listens to consider whether the thing happened or not, whether it is true. truth matters, and you might even think about in terms of civilizations and cultures, truth matters in philosophy. And that is the study of truth. What is truth? Well, people have been asking that question for a long time. truth matters in Scripture as well. In fact, it's fundamental. It is the essence of what is found in Scripture, because scripture comes from God and establishes truth. For us. truth matters. I'd like to look for a few moments this morning at truth as found in Jesus Christ. Truth is found in Jesus, Jesus is full of truth. And so we can understand what truth is by looking at his life by examining him who he is, and what he has taught us. I'd like to look at Jesus, full of truth from John. And I got that backwards somehow, John 114, through 18. I can't seem to get a PowerPoint with at least one air in so maybe that'll get it done for this morning, John 114, through 18, John 114, through 18. And we'll actually begin even before that in the first three verses, as we see that Jesus is cosmic truth, Jesus's cosmic truth. And so what I mean by that is in the beginning, if we think about the order and structure of the universe, we see that Jesus is fundamental that, and we see that in the first three verses, in the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God. He was in the beginning with God, all things were made through Him and without Him was not anything made that was made. Here we see that in the beginning was the word Jesus Christ is going to be said to be later that he is that word that we're talking about. So in the beginning, was Jesus the word Jesus was in the beginning, when we hear about in the beginning that reminds us of what happened in in Genesis one. In the beginning, God created the heavens and the earth, God created all things. Genesis one verse one establishes the truth or the reality for all scripture. In the beginning, there was God, He is before time, we are really a function of time, aren't we? We're limited by time but God is not. So he was before there was even time he has always existed. And in the beginning, that existence one God created all things heaven, and are. But we see in John one a fuller picture of what it means that God created all things for it says, In the beginning was the Word and the Word was with God. The Jews would raise their eyebrows at that, because they know that God is one and God was in the beginning and he created all things alone. But John, John says, In the beginning was the Word and the Word was with God. So they may begin to scratch their head at this point. You mean someone was with God? I thought he was alone the only creator but it goes on to tell us not only was the word with God, but the Word was God Jesus Christ, the Holy Spirit are distinct. We might use the word personalities, there's a distinctiveness to them, but there's also a oneness. And so we see both of those truths here. And the beginning was the word Jesus Christ, and He was with God when he was God. He was in the beginning with God. First ray goes on to say that all things were made through Him. And without Him was not anything made that was made. Jesus Christ was not a created being. Jesus Christ was not a spectator, in the creation, but a full and active participant. He created all things, there is nothing that we could point to that and say, that came into existence apart from Jesus, no, everything came into the world through Jesus Christ. You know, there's it's no accident that the word word is used here in John one of verse one. The Greek term for this is log us. And it was used by many philosophers to describe the reason behind the universe. Greek philosophy believed in a force that created all things, an unmoved mover. And so there is this power that created all things the log us the reason behind the universe, they knew that it was no accident. And John is not going to say that, yes, all great philosophy is right, but he's going to provide a fuller picture. That's unnamed reason that impersonal force that you believe created all things, is actually Jesus Christ. He is the reason behind all things. He is the eternal God, the Creator of all things. If we think about creation is coming for from the very mind of God. We see that Jesus Christ is that word, that reason. Jesus structured the universe, creation was transformed from chaos to order. And that tells us there was intelligence. It was reason in order to again no accidents. It was with a word that God said, Let there be light. And it was with the word that God created all things. We see the depiction of Jesus as the Lagace of the word and that shows us that He is the true revelation, the true mind, He is God, He is God. And so Jesus is a cosmic truth, we can use that that language. Not only that, we see that Jesus is embodied truth. Notice in John one in verse 14, John one of verse 14, and the Word became flesh, and the Word became flesh, and dwelt among us. We have seen his glory, glory, as the only Son from the Father full of grace, and truth. Again, Greek philosophy said that this word, this reason behind all things, brought all things into existence. But it would have been difficult for them to imagine that that word was flesh, that word was flesh. And so Jesus says that the Word became flesh became flesh, or I guess I should say that has been more difficult for the Jewish mind. Greeks had many gods that went back and forth between man and displayed characteristics of man. And again, John is going to say, that's not the picture of God, that is truth, that is reality. This word became flesh, embodied flesh. Sometimes we hear the word incarnate, took on flesh, God took on flesh, and the order there is important. It's not that this man became a god. It's not that this man that was born under normal circumstances, claimed to be God and then became a god in some way. No, he was God first, and he took on flesh. That is Jesus Christ. He fully embodies truth. And John 14 and verse six, Jesus would say that I am the Way, the Truth, and the life. No man comes to the Father except through me. Notice that Jesus didn't say I have the truth, although he did. He hadn't learned some facts about truth, but he claimed himself to be The truth, he embodied truth fully, I am the truth, the way, the Way, the Truth and the Life. So he's not one truth among money, he is the truth. He is not a truth. He is the truth, the fundamental truth through which one was come to know the Father. Not only that Jesus Christ take on flesh, it says that he dwelt among us. The word for dwelt is a rare word, and it literally means the word tabernacle, and are tinted. So Jesus Christ tabernacled among us, well, this would have been a familiar image for the Jews, they would have thought back immediately to the, the tabernacle, that Moses constructed the tabernacle that was in the wilderness, and that represented the very presence of God. You might remember, as the Israelites traveled through the wilderness, the tabernacle would be established in the center, and they would camp around it, God was in their midst, God was in their presence. And so John is telling us that Jesus Christ is that tabernacle, not that tabernacle, but he is the presence of God in the midst of people. He is the very presence of God. And they would have recognized that, but again, the Jewish mind would have recognized the image but they would have rejected the idea that, that this man, the one that would take on flesh could be the Christ. They saw a very fixed line between God and man, Jews had emphasized that a human being could not become a God was not God, there was distinctiveness there, but God in unconventional ways, through his wisdom, sent his son, and Jesus took on flesh. And John one and 14 It says, And the Word became flesh and tabernacled, or tented, or dwelt among us, and we have seen his glory, glory as of the only Son from the Father. The glory of the Lord is another common image in the new and the old testament. In Exodus 24, in verse 16, it says, The glory of the Lord dwelled on Mount Sinai, there is a sense in which God's presence was there on the mountain, and it displayed the the world the earth displayed his presence through thunder and lightning, and a great storm about the the earth was reacting to God's presence there. And it says that Mount Sinai was filled or full of the glory of the Lord. We see this also as the tabernacle was constructed. At the very end of Exodus and Exodus 40. In verse 32, it says, Then the cloud covered the 10 of meeting and the glory of the Lord filled the Tabernacle. The Tabernacle represented God's presence, and it displayed glory. Do you see the point with Jesus Christ, Jesus Christ is that tabernacle or that tent, that presence of God among us, and it is full of his glory, and not just any glory, not a glory that we might be impressed with, again, another person or human being but glory as of the only Son from the Father, the type of glory that could only come from God, that is, Jesus Christ. This is the same glory that describes God and it describes Jesus Christ. Now notice in verse 16, or let me finish verse 14, glory as of the only Son from the Father full of grace and truth. Jesus Christ is full of grace and truth and we're focusing on truth. Grace, may be another lesson, actually preached this in a meeting and Shawn brain being preached this idea of full of grace did an excellent job but but there we see that Jesus and he's finally identified Jesus is full of truth, full of truth. As we continue on in verse 16, for from his fullness, we have all received grace upon grace, or maybe even Grace facing grace. That's a little bit of an odd idea, but it may be the idea of grace heaping upon grace, or maybe another idea that faces grace. Grace facing grace, is that there is a fulfillment. In looking back there is a fulfillment that is found. So what kind of fulfillment are we talking about? Verse 17, for The Law was given through Moses, grace and truth came through Jesus Christ. Now, we don't need to see a contrast here. Some people have tried to develop a contrast, as if Moses was fully devoid of grace and truth. Now the law came from God. So if it came from God, it would bear his characteristics, it would bear the idea of truth and grace within, but not to a full measure. Because it was not intended to do that. It did not have the ability to forgive sins, it was not baked in to the process or God's design of the law. And so it's not a contrast necessarily here we may see it as simply an added idea or the source of it. As the law came through Moses, grace and truth came through Jesus Christ. And again, I would add the fullness of grace and truth, there was a greater degree. And so as we see Grace facing grace, I think it carries the same idea of fulfillment that we find and, for example, Matthew five and verse 17, where it says that Jesus came not to abolish the law, but to fulfill the law. And so as we see this grace facing grace, we see a fulfillment, looking back and a greater display or a fulfillment of that grace. Law was given through Moses and grace and truth came through Jesus Christ, verse 18, no one has ever seen, god. That was a truth throughout Scripture. In fact, Moses caught a glimpse

Unknown Speaker  16:42
of the backside of God,

Jeremy Sweets  16:46
and His face shone from from the relationship that he has the presence of that glory. Man cannot see God. But yet here it says, the only God who is at the father side, he has made him known. We can't see God, but Jesus Christ took on flesh, we could see him, we could see him and he fully displayed the Father. So the point of all this is that Jesus is different from every other man that has ever lived because he was and is God. Jesus was not a created man claiming to be God, He was God who took on the flesh, the eternal God. For this reason, Jesus relationship to truth is different from every other person. Jesus is full of true. So how did Jesus embody this truth? Well notice several ways that that was accomplished. First of all, by revealing the Father, we see this in verse 18, as I mentioned, no one has ever seen God. The only God who is that the father saw he has made him known, revealed the Father, Jesus came to proclaim truth. In fact, we see that in John and John 18, and verse 37. He says, For this purpose, I was born and for this purpose, I've come into the world, to bear witness to the truth, to bear witness that language is interesting, Jesus Christ uniquely, could bear witness to God, to who he is. Jesus always speaks the truth, he cannot lie, and he bears witness of who God is, He reveals the false. And that's the most fundamental truth that he proclaims who God is, he shows his character. And John 10, in verse 30, Jesus could say, I and the Father are one. We are one. Jesus was the full revelation of God, to see and know Jesus is to see and know God the Father. Hebrews one and verse three says, He is the radiance of the glory of God, and the exact imprint of his nature. And I was about an imprint, I think about a finger mark that's left you can identify where that came from. If you look at the unique marks of a fingerprint, when you look at Jesus Christ, you can see where he came from, who he is the very nature that he is, and that he reveals the Father. We also see this in his teaching, and his teaching Jesus is full of truth in his teaching. Now, I mentioned philosophy as we began the lesson. And philosophy is something you can go to school and study today. And if you do that, if you go to school and study philosophy, or take a class, you're going to learn about people that lived hundreds of years ago and their thoughts. And then you're going to come forward a few more years and learn about got what they thought about those thoughts, and then you're going to come forward. And you're going to continue to think, really with humanity, you're going to think with civilizations with other people as you consider their thoughts and their thoughts and their thoughts. And add to that. And so there's a sense of collective wisdom. You know, the Jews had that as well. They had a collective wisdom. In fact, when they debated or when they reasoned from the scriptures, they would grow, quote, Rabbi, so and so said this, and he was interpreting the law this way. And if we would think about that, and add to that, and take away, we would see maybe what the truth is, but we also have to consider what this rabbi said. And so they would look, and they would go back, and they would consider this collective wisdom. All in all, it's not a bad idea to consider the wisdom of others. Now, the Jews made mistakes when they replaced or said that our traditions are on equal footing with the Word of God. So they became mixed up in their their practice and thus their teaching. But I want you to see that that is the way that they reasoned, but Jesus Christ steps outside of this dialog, and he did something quite radical. He was not building on the understanding of the rabbi's. And why is that? Well, he was different. He was full of truth himself. In the Sermon on the Mount, he displays this to great degree. In Matthew five in verse 20, Jesus argues that his true disciples, those that are true disciples, must have a righteousness that exceeds that of the scribes and Pharisees. Now notice, in Matthew five, verse 21, there's going to be a series of seven teachings that he considers that contrast, the the perversions of the scribes and Pharisees and what the truth is, for example, in verse 21, You have heard that it was said to those of old, You shall not murder, whoever martyrs will not be, will be liable to judgments. But I say to you that everyone who is angry with his brother will be liable. The judge, whoever insults his brother will be liable to the council. And whoever says, You fool will be liable to the Hill of fire. Notice that Jesus digs deeper, and he gets at the heart of the law. This is not a contrast, again, between the old law and the new law, I believe, but rather, this is Jesus showing the true intent. God has always wanted the heart and that was true in the Old Testament shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, mind and soul. And Jesus brings us to the front, once again, six other times, or for a total of six times I said, Seven, but there's six teachings there. Jesus quotes what the people had heard. And then he provides the contrast of truth. You have heard that was said to those of old but I say to you, but I say to you notice at the very end of the sermon, that the people were amazed that how Jesus taught and Matthew seven and verse 28. And when Jesus finished these saints, the crowd were astonished at his teaching, for he was teaching them as one who had authority and not as their scribes. Remember how the Jews normally reason rabbi, so and so says this, and we can see and understand this. And then we can build upon this, and we take this collective wisdom, and then we can try to reason our way to truth. But Jesus did it differently. He didn't need to, quote Rabbi so and so he could speak through his own authority. But I say to you, and he could do that, because he himself was full of truth. He was and his God, and he could speak from that vantage point. And people recognize that and they were amazed. They were amazed. One other example we might point to, is found in the book of Matthew, when, when Jesus disciples were going through and picking grain, and they were eating the grain. Now, Jesus, that scenario steps into a Jewish debate about what exactly is work on the Sabbath. You're not supposed to work on the Sabbath, and what's involved in that. And so there were people that criticize the disciples for what they were doing. And this is found in Matthew chapter 12, and the first eight verse, And Jesus reminds them of a few different things. So they were picking the grain. The Pharisee says, You can't do that, that sin that's work. And so Jesus begins to reason these things through. He reminded them that David ate the bread of the presence when he was hungry, yet they did not routinely condemn David for his actions there. He goes on to remind them that the priest made sacrifices. Now that may seem routine, but what do you have to do to make a sacrifice, we have to touch a dead animal and that would have made one normally unclean. But people understood that that did not happen for the, the the priests, those that were offering those, those animals. And then finally, Jesus quotes Hosea six and verse six. And he argues for mercy and not mere superficial rule following. But notice how he concludes in verse eight. That's a wonderful passes, I'm sorry, I can't go into all the details. But just notice the conclusion, verse eight, for the Son of Man is Lord of the sadness. Now Jesus could make arguments based upon the law. And I think that's what he does. And he could do that for the legitimacy of what his disciples were doing. But ultimately, he claims to be Lord of the sadness, and to fully understand His purpose. And he could only do that because he was and is God, and He is full of truth, full of truth. We also see that Jesus embodies truth in his suffering, in his suffering. You know, the rubber meets the road when telling the truth brings difficulty or challenges or negative results. Anybody can tell the truth when it's easy, it's a greater challenge when others oppose you, or when you might get in trouble or face pain because of that. But Jesus was full of truth and he could not speak a lie regardless of the circumstances. In first Peter 121 through 23. For this, you have been called because Christ also suffered for you leaving you an example, so that you might follow in his steps, he committed no sin, neither was deceit found in his mouth. When he was reviled, He did not revile in return when he suffered, he did not threaten, but continued and trusting himself to him who judges justly. Jesus spoke the truth regardless of the consequences. When Simon the Pharisee saw a woman coming in and and she took an ointment and wash Jesus's feet with her hair, Simon, the Pharisee looked at that and thought to himself, how could Jesus allow this sinner to touch him? How could Jesus allow them Jesus spoke the truth to him, even though it was socially unacceptable. Jesus spoke the truth. When the Pharisees question Jesus for eating with tax collectors. Jesus spoke the truth to them. When Jesus was said to the Pharisees and Matthew 15, were hypocrites, the religious elite, those that everyone looked up to, said, there, their worship was vain. Their hearts were far from God. Notice what his disciples come to him afterward and say, in Matthew 15, verse seven, or excuse me, verse 12, the disciples came and said to him, do you know that the Pharisees were offended when they heard this? I believe Jesus didn't know that. And he spoke the truth anyway, regardless of the circumstance, and even in the face of threats of arrest and death, as the Pharisees and Jews tried to trick him, tried to trap him as they combined with the Herodians, a pro Roman group, they normally we're at odds, but they teamed up against Jesus and Jesus spoke the truth. Jesus spoke the truth. And Jesus spoke the truth to Judas, the very one that was betraying Him. Jesus spoke the truth and is suffering. Jesus embodies truth in his death as well. This is the greatest, most fundamental truth, that there is. God is love. God loves us so much in first John four in verse eight, it defines God God is love. And the death of Christ shows the extent of God's love. John three, verse 16, says, For God so loved the world, that He gave His only Son that whoever believes in Him should not perish but have everlasting life. God loves us so much that he was willing to give his son that's unspeakable love. And he didn't do that for those that were necessarily wanting his love and appreciating that he did that for enemies. Those that had rebelled against Him. Romans five verse six, it says, For while we were weak at the right time, Christ died for the ungodly, and verse eight, but God shows His love for And that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us later in verses 10 and 11, and we see that he died so that we might be reconciled. Consider the great love that's found there. He gave His Son, He gave His Son for those that despise him and rebelled against Him. And He did that so that we could be together, reconcile, having fellowship, the love of God has seen in the death of his son sets Christianity apart from every other religion. You need to see and understand this point. There are many people that talk about truth, many religions that talk about truth, many religions that talk about transforming yourself and becoming a better person. But it is only Christianity that truly shows us what love is, as seen in the death of the Son Jesus Christ. Who is God, who died for us so that we could be at peace and harmony with God, Himself. And so we see that Jesus is full of truth. But we also see a practical truth here Jesus was more than propositional truth. Jesus was truth in action, he was lived true. And so he represents the true heart of God. And Hebrews three and verse one, therefore, holy brothers, you who share in a heavenly calling, consider Jesus, the Apostle and High Priests of our confession, who was faithful to Him Who appointed him, just as Moses was also faithful in all God's house. Again, Jesus was not just propositional truth or had truth or Rene relayed some truths, he is truth, in body truth and he was faithful. He showed fidelity. So consider some ways that we can emulate Jesus that we can practice truth today that we can live for. Because as Christians, we claim to have the truth, the propositional truth that Jesus is Christ. But I hope we understand that the Christian life is more than a teaching. It's a way of life. It's how we live. So the first thing we can do if we are to live truth is we can confess Jesus as Lord. And Romans 10 And verse nine. And if you confess with your mouth that Jesus is Lord and believe in your heart, that God raised Him from the dead, you will be say, again, we're not only saying who Jesus is with the Scriptures tells us abundantly We need to do that. But claiming Jesus's Lord is claiming something about our relationship to him. He is Lord, not just in the universal sense which he is, but Lord of my life, I acknowledge him. He is Lord. And so we must confess Him. And again, Matthew chan tells us regardless of the circumstances, even if we are threatened with death, we need to fear God, above men, confess God before men, so that he will confess us before the fall. Secondly, I'd suggest we need to be honest with ourselves. You know, the one we deceive probably the most, more than anyone, is ourselves. We justify ourselves, we make excuses for ourselves, we hide our head in the sand and ignore our problems and issues because it's just easier that way. And so we deceive ourselves. Proverbs 28, verse 13, says, Whoever conceals his transgression will not prosper, but he who confesses and forsakes and will obtain mercy. To be a Christian, you must be honest, you must be honest and authentic with yourself. It's not a matter of pretending to be the best or right are always good. But it's confessing who we are, that we are sinners, we are in need of grace, we are not perfect. And so let us be quick to to state that. Let us not pretend but let us be real with who we are and with with with others. Paul often uses the instruction Do not be deceived. And we need to take that advice to heed in Galatians six and verse seven, do not be deceived. God is not mocked for whatever a man sows that will he also read in James one in verse 13. Do not be deceived. God does not tempt us. I'm paraphrasing. God is good. He doesn't want us to see Do not be to see first Corinthians six and verse nine the unrighteous will not inherit the kingdom of God. Do not be deceived First Corinthians 15 Bad company corrupts good morals. It's so easy for us to deceive ourselves. Paul says, Do not be deceived. Let us practice integrity. Let us be honest with ourselves and be real, authentic people. Let us also speak the truth Feagins for in verse 15, says, Speak the truth in love. That passage is surrounded in a context where we as Christians are part of a church body, where we are growing up into maturity into to the very image of Christ. And part of that whole process of growing up and maturity is speaking the truth, saying what's right, it means we speak the truth. In a hostile world, speak the truth of Christianity, we speak the truth on our taxes. We speak the truth at our job, we speak the truth with our neighbor, we speak the truth at all times, at all times. And how do we do that? Not in a debate trying to prove ourselves right. Not to show ourselves superior but in love and genuine love, out of concern for God and for helping others not winning an argument. So let us speak the truth. And let us live our profession we are to confess that Jesus is the Christ. But again, that is something that must be lived and not just stated. Hebrews 1023 says, Let us hold fast the confession of our hope without wavering for He who promised his faith. We lay our lives down before God who is faithful to us and we seek to be faithful as well. To be consistent in our life. One of the greatest dangers a Christian can face is hypocrisy. To say that they are Christian, but yet not to live as one. And we must all grapple with it and be earnestly striving to live right because we will fail at times and we will fall. But let us get back up, acknowledge God and rely upon Him. Jesus is full of truth. And we must confess Him as the fundamental truths. We must seek to emulate and copy his character walk as He will act and be truthful with ourselves and with others. And as we do that we point others to the truth that is in Jesus Christ. We can never embody truth as Jesus did. But we should seek to embody truth as much as we can, as much as we can. If you're here this morning and you're not a Christian, you have an opportunity to obey the gospel message, believing that Jesus is the Christ, repenting of your sins, confessing Jesus as the Christ and being baptized in the water for forgiveness of sins. If you're here this morning and you are a Christian, but you're not living as you should. You also need to make changes. honor the commitment you've made live in the right way. If there's anyone that needs the prayers of the congregation or needs to be baptized, this group wants to help you. We all want to get to heaven together. There's any subject to the invitation. Please come as we stand and sing at this time.


Transcribed by https://otter.ai