His wonderful opportunity, again that we have to worship and praise our great God of heaven, he deserves all praise. And we certainly seek to give that to him every day of our lives. And trust, as we've come together this evening, we will be challenged in our faith to seek to trust God more fully, and to rest in His grace as we strive to be the people that he wants us to be. First I want to thank Jeremy for that lesson this morning, I hope we understand and appreciate the greatness of God, the holiness of God, and the character of God is such that when he makes a promise, he is bound to keep it and that should give us the greatest assurance. So again, thank you, Jeremy for that lesson, they'll probably be another tie in to some of the truths that he talked about this morning later in the lesson, but also appreciate God in the songs that he left for us this evening. Be still my soul is one of my favorites. And it's also one of my biggest challenges to achieve. As a kid, I found it very difficult to be still. And as an adult, I still find it difficult to be still, when I was a kid, my grandmother said that I had ants in my pants, anybody else any other grandparent, tell it to their kids, please nod your head. Anyway, learning to be still is a real challenge. And some of you probably in the business world especially you can be very still and stay at your desk and stay focused here on the computer screen or spreadsheet and doing whatever you would have you have to do. And you can do that all day long. And I can't do that. So I have to be moving. And I can do some computer work for a while and other stuff like that. But this last Monday morning was kind of an eye opening experience for me. Mondays tend to be busy in my line of work and running a roofing company. And we love it to get phone calls, obviously, and in the form of text or emails or phone call. But I got a phone call Monday morning, and we weren't doing the roof. So I just I decided to let it go to my voicemail, which is happened sometimes. And then within about 30 seconds, a text message came, hey, I really need you to spec this route for us. We're trying to close on a house very soon. So I thought about it and prayed about it. And I thought I'm already good about 10 or 15 projects I'm doing right now. And so I said, I can't get to it. I said, just to get too much my play, do you need a referral? Please. So I gave him a couple referrals. And he went on his way I'm sure. But but that buys by saying no. On that particular occasion gave me an opportunity to just kind of sit still and be focused on my task in front of me. So I had a very productive morning for five or six hours, but don't normally do that. But so I say that to say that being still and staying focused is a real challenge for all of us. And it is for me, and sometimes we talk about we find ourselves getting caught up in the rat race. How many of us get or get find yourself in the rat race, I think though, we need to get out of the rat race and get in God's race and keep our focus on Him. And so the challenge, I think, for each of us, is this concept of learning to be still. And again, I'd suggest probably to almost all of us, that's what a great challenge for for all people throughout history. People of the world have that face that challenge. But it's also a challenge for God's people for us in His kingdom. So that the challenge is learning to be still, it's not easy. We can get so anxious and stressed out with the workloads and family issues and financial burdens, you name it. And it can certainly be true in teaching God's word and preaching the gospel and all that type of thing that many of us engage in. But the challenge is, and God is really calling on us to learn to be still and ultimately as we saying, No, God. And so I want to talk with you this evening about this idea of learning to be still as something that we can achieve. We have to work it that takes some discipline. And before we get I put together three points that I want to share in this lesson this evening. Just my personal observations coming from three basic scriptures, but I want to share a quotation with you. I came across this I keep some of these, either in my notebook or my phone or somewhere. This is from George Seaton Bose. He said that the heart that has to be filled to the brim with holy Joy

must be held still. And a lot of these I get from Gary Henry's articles and writings but that fray that thought really got my attention In the heart, that has to be filled to the brim with holy Joy must be held still, again, we live in that with that rat race mentality. And somehow we need to slow down and focus on what's most important. And so this, again, is a quotation that is meant a lot to me. And and I get I think, again, for each of us, it reminds us that God does want us to slow down and focus on him. So let's look this evening that three, basically three scriptures I want us to consider, as we contemplate the idea of learning to be still, again, this is something that God actually commands us. And so it's an urgent thing for us. And we'll be want to begin with the first observation from Psalm 46. This is actually the passage that skip read yesterday morning, at the graveside for the Jimmy low. But first of all, we need to understand that God is sovereign over all the world, even when chaos abounds. So if your world is in chaos, or if it's family, or financial situation, or whatever it might be. God is still God over all creation. And he is the sovereign ruler of heaven and earth. And because of that, as Jeremy mentioned this morning, we can trust Him we can, we can believe that he'll bring us through the challenges. So again, look at this passage to me one of my favorite songs again. Psalm 46 says that God is our refuge and strength, a very present help in trouble. Therefore, we will not fear though the earth gives way. For the mountains be moved into the heart of the sea. Those waters roar in foam, though the mountains tremble at it swelling sila, there is a river whose streams make glad the city of God, the holy habitation of the Most High, God is in the midst of her, she shall not be moved, God will help her when morning dawns, the nation's rage, the kingdoms totter, he utters His voice, the earth melts, the Lord of hosts of the Lord of Heaven, heavens armies is with us. The God of Jacob is our fortress sila. In verse a come behold the works of the Lord. How he is brought distillations on the earth, He makes wars, sees to the end of the earth, He breaks the bow and shatters the spear, he burns the chariots with fire. Be still and know that I am God. I will be exalted among the nations I will be exalted in the earth, the Lord of hosts is with us, the God of Jacob is our fortress sila. And so And Psalm chapter 46. The imagery in the language there is of upheaval, and war and battle and one nation coming against another nation and the seas like raging, it seems like the world is out of control. But in the the message that runs through this song, is that God is still the Creator, he's still the ruler of heaven and earth, and everything is, is under his control in in his power, if at the charge there, verse 10, is that he tells us, in the midst of all this upheaval and turmoil, to be still,

to see striving is what my translation says, or a footnote says, relax, to be still, and know that I am God. And you think back in the day in which this is written, and whatever is happening in terms of wars, and fighting that type of thing. And maybe we we forget to realize that we live in tumultuous times, I mean, this last year with a presidential election that was very contentious, all types of political striving, not to mention a worldwide plague or a virus that seemed many, at least to too many of us at times to be like, out of control. God is still God. And he's telling us in the midst of all of the adversity and trial and sickness and death and suffering, he is the God of heaven and earth, and He is going to be exalted among the nations. He is going to be exalted in the earth. And for us as Christians. The promise in verse 11 Is that the Lord of hosts is with us that God promises to walk us through the valley of the shadow of death. And the God of Jacob is our fortress. So against him, it's a message of strength and hope for each one of us. So in the midst, you know, when the world seems to be coming unglued in his trial, and burden and Tim Taishan and fear and anxiety are the things that all of us wrestle with. To some degree, God is saying that he reminds us that He is the ruler of heaven and earth and he charges us to stop being anxious, stop striving in our mind, like, Ah, how am I gonna handle this crisis, and we put our trust in Him. So I think, again, we realize how common the challenge is to learn, to be still and to know that that God really is the ruler of heaven and earth. So just again, I mentioned, this is a common struggle for all of us. I mentioned, when I was a young, young kid that my grandmother said, I had ants in my pants. But aside from that, I remember when I broke my leg, taught me how hard it is to be still, especially for me, when I broke my leg in the eighth grade, as the beginning of my illustrious ski career or not, and I broke my leg. And this was over Christmas break, you know, and everybody was gone from the house, I'm in there by myself. We live in a two floor, we call it double decker, in the Northeast, and I'm sitting, I can't stand it, I gotta do something. I mean, I'm still healthy and can still think so I had a like a small motorcycle or mini bike on the second floor of a house, I said, I'm going to get on my my little motorcycle in the streets are covered with snow and ice. And I wrapped up my leg in plastic, and somehow managed hobbling down the stairs to the first floor, than the ports and out the door to get on my little motorcycle, get it cranked up and went down the road, kind of like easy ride on my left leg was kind of off to the left over here, going down a road and enjoying it for a few minutes. But by the time I get near the pond that I was facing, I turned around, I was having a hard time balancing. So I said, You know what, maybe it's not a good idea to ride a motorcycle with a broken leg. So I decided to get back home. So if I can make it back home, I left it out to my little little motorcycle outside and came back inside. But again, it's a reminder, I couldn't sit still I just could not stay still. And that may be one humorous example. But the reality is, how many of us struggle, struggle to be still, we just are so agitated. Politics gets me upset. Sports gets me obsessed, my team wins. Whoa, I'm excited if they lose a man. It's like the end of the world. So we understand that. And God again is reminding, reminding us that no matter what's going on, in the world, or in your life, or the struggles of your heart or my heart, we need to trust Him, and understand that he will bring us through the challenges as we put our complete trust in Him. So that's the first point I want to mention is we seek to learn to be still before God understand who he is, understand his character. Secondly, I think we learn to be still when we keep our gaze on God. And that again, is a challenge or sometimes I'm focused on God, especially when I get rid of the pre to teach God's word. I mean, with all the apprehension and anxiety racing through my mind, I say, I'm going to save someone's soul I'm going to teach God's word and build up the body of Christ and have that crystal clear focus for a while until distractions come my way and all of a sudden, like what am I doing you know a committed to teaching this class this quarter and all these things are happening around us or me and and kind of forget that, that focused it that I should have an each of us should have but again, we learn to be still when we keep our gaze on God, Isaiah chapter 26, verses three and four is again one of my favorite verses. And it challenges us to to keep our focus to keep our our gaze on God. So the promise the inverse to is, you will keep him in perfect peace, whose mind is stayed on you because he trust in you trust in the Lord forever for in your which I think is an abbreviation of your way, for in your way the Lord is everlasting strength. So, just a couple things to think about here before we continue in this text. What kind of peace? Does God give us? Is it you know, little peace? Is it a small degree of peace? Is it like imperfect peace, I feel a little bit better. The promise that God gives us when we have a mind that is focused on him is called perfect peace in the midst of war, in the midst of Babylonian captivity in the midst of a crisis in the midst of a worldwide pandemic. I can still have perfect peace, not because of my character or my nature, but because I'm trusting God we're putting our trust in Him. And so that should be a reminder to us that God gives us as Paul said in Philippians chapter four, the peace that surpasses all understanding. But when you look at this Texas, it tells us what we need to be doing to achieve that peace. It says you will keep him in perfect peace, whose mind is stayed on you. And so the the idea when he's talking about our mind, he's talking about our thoughts, our thinking, our imagination, and our mind itself needs to be fixed on God. It's not just like a casual glance at God. It's an intense

or intentional focus on our Great and Holy gods who a perfect piece, the writer tells us, comes to any of us, all of us, whose minds are riveted on God has your mind riveted on God. Mind very often is not. I'm like Peter, when the waves start step out of the boat, and also the waves start surging like whoa, what am I doing out here in this water, and take my eyes off Jesus like Peter did. And so you look at Hebrews chapter 12, which again, conveys there's a lot of messages here. But the writer is telling these Christians, these Jewish Christians to keep their eyes on Jesus. He said, Therefore, since we also have a such a great cloud of witnesses surrounding us, let's rid ourselves of every obstacle in the sin which so easily entangles us. And let us and let's run with endurance, the race that is set before us. He said, looking only at Jesus, most of the translations like the New King James, New King James Version ESPC, Looking unto Jesus, and earlier translation of the ESV, or a version says, fixing our eyes on Jesus. Now this is also when I found on my, my, my app in my phone, but So the message is looking only at Jesus, do we have tunnel vision for Jesus Christ. When you have your eyes fixed on Jesus, you can do anything, and I can do anything. When I take my eyes off Jesus and look at my surroundings, the trials, the temptations, the fears, all the other stuff, all of a sudden I sink. But the passage is telling us that we need to be looking only at Jesus, the originator and protector of the faith. Excuse me, who for the joy set before him endured the cross, despising the shame, and has sat down at the right hand of the throne of God, did Jesus have distractions to deal with trials, temptations burdens beyond measure, but he was so focused on getting you into heaven, in May into heaven, that he considered it a small thing he despised the the shame that means he considered it considered that of little consequence. When people make fun of you or me or ridicule you, because of your faith, we get so upset, we almost come unglued, didn't bother Jesus. I mean, yes, as a human being as a man is not fun to deal with. But that didn't slow him down. That didn't keep him away from his mission of saving our souls. Then in verse three is repeated this message of this, of looking only at Jesus and verse three, excuse me, says For consider Him who has endured such hostility by sinners against himself, so that you will not grow weary and lose heart, why do we grow weary? Why do we sometimes lose heart because we forget that Jesus had been there and done that he sat in your seat? He walked in your shoes, he knows the trials, he knows the temptations that I wrestle with, that you wrestle with? And so the writer of Hebrews is telling us to consider him that means, think about him. What was Jesus thinking, when people spit in his face? Best, not fun? What was Jesus thinking about when they mocked him when they beat him, and ultimately, when they crucified him, he was thinking about you and me, because he wanted to save us from our sins so that again, the way that we

keep our mind stayed on him is when we have that focus, we completely put our trust in Him. So again, this is the New International Version. And it says that you will keep in perfect peace those whose minds are steadfast that's another element of this word, and I don't know much in terms of Hebrew, but it's not just Mize to to focused on God. But if my sitter steadfast, we're not easily agitated and our focus has not easily shifted. So those whose minds are sticking Fast, he keeps in perfect peace, because it says they trust in you. And the universe forces trust in the Lord forever. The point here is that the key isn't just about trusting God, but it's about always trusting God, no matter what's going on. When your IRA in your bank balance is ascending and going up, you can be great. But when it's going down in your financial burns, we still trust him during sickness and health and pain or persecution or hardship. We trust in the Lord forever. That means we never quit trusting in him, no matter what's going on in our lives, our families, our marriages are home to whatever's going on. We always trust and our great and awesome God. And, and so again, it's I think that's what he's saying here. Don't let the trials and the burdens and temptations of life rob you are robbed me of the peace that God wants us to have. We can have perfect peace even, or in spite of the trials that we're dealing with. Another element I want you to think about here. So it says verse four, trust in the Lord forever. So we always trust God, no matter what's going on. Then it says, And this is like how the NIV puts us for the Lord. The Lord Himself is the rock eternal. This kind of coincides with some things that Jeremy talked about this morning. So when God wants to give us a promise of assurance, he swears by himself. And this is telling us over here that the Lord, the Lord himself is our eternal rock. Yes, we trust His promises. We trust His Word, we trust everything about him. But God wants us to know that he himself is the rock. And if you hold on to the rock of God, who's who is Jesus Christ, you're never going to be moved, you never fall away, if we keep our focus on Him. And so, translations rented out a little bit differently. But I like how this puts it. It says, For the Lord, the Lord Himself is the rocky turn, what greater assurance Can God give to us, except to say that I am your God, I give you the promise of eternal life. And I will be with you through this, your the valley and the shadow and all the things that we deal with. I am your God, you put your trust in me, because I care about you. So again, we learn to be still, when we can keep our gaze on God, one of the points that I want to mention this evening. Again, another way that we can learn to be still is to find a time and a place of prayer and to persist in it. We've been having our study on Sunday mornings and Kevin's class, I appreciate that so much the the necessary and urgent message for us to prioritize prayer to, to schedule it during the weekend, and to be engaged in it in a fervent nature. And so prayer is one of the ways that we were still, and you know, you're not running that I mean, yes, sometimes driving, I can pray to God and I do that you probably do the same thing. But when we force ourselves to get to a quiet place, whether it's in your house, or your bedroom, or or bathroom, or sometimes go out to an area by the lake, I get a chance to go all around Middle Tennessee and find a really quiet place. So you know what, turn off my cell phone, just go there by the water, and pray to God. And so we get to find the time make the time. And a place to do that. Again, we've looked looked at this in the past, and maybe in Kevin's class, maybe both Kevin's classes, so he decided who said it. So and Mark chapter two, Jesus lives a very busy life whose schedule, it says this is right after the healing of Peter's mother in law. So that evening after sunset that people brought to Jesus, all the sick and the demon possessed the whole universe. 33, the whole town gathered at the door, and Jesus healed many who had various diseases. He also drove out many demons, but he would not let the demons speak because they knew who he was. And we looked at this recently, but in this context, Jesus is inundated with people with all types of requests here, my daughter Hill, my son, he'll, whoever it may be just overwhelming the entire town is gathered at his door. After a whole day of activity and healing and teaching, then loads verse 35. Very early in the morning, the next morning, very early in the morning when I'm still sleeping and many of us are still sleeping, says while it was still dark.

Jesus got up and left the house and went to a solitary place where he prayed. That's what our class on Sunday morning has been about prioritizing prayer. Jesus did that. And so again, you you think to yourself, Okay, Mike, you don't understand how busy I am, how many issues I have, how many things I'm trying to juggle. The question is, are you busier than Jesus? Did you ever? Do you ever have more on your plate than Jesus had on his plate? No, I know you don't. Yeah, we have a lot of stuff that I complained about all the time to get my gun back plates for so full, and thankful for business, all that kind of stuff. But your plate isn't more full than Jesus played, in that he knew how to stay focused on his purpose of preaching and sharing the gospel. So again, here's a great example from the your passes to all of us. Early in the morning, Jesus got up and went to the solitary place, turned off his cell phone, turn off his computer, all that kind of stuff. So he didn't get any text messages. And he pray to His Father in heaven. Now go on to look in this context here. So now Jesus is praying, he got away from the crowd. And he's in a desolate place praying. And the text says that Simon and his companions went to look for him. So he couldn't get away from them very long. And then when they found him, they explained, everyone is looking for you, Jesus. Wow, he's talking about being at the height of his popularity, everybody is looking for Jesus. And so for most of us, when we get all those phone calls in business, it's like, Man, I'm going to keep taking these things in you know, and but what Jesus does is really shocking, says, Jesus replied, Let us go somewhere else, to the nearby villages, so I can preach there also. That is why I have come. So we traveled throughout Galilee, preaching in their synagogues, and driving about demons. So again, this is such a compelling issue to me. And I know what it means to struggle with being a people pleaser, we have to learn not to do that. And I have had to fight that in my life. And to keep my focus where it needs to be Jesus was not a people pleaser. So here he is, doing all types of miracles in healing people. And, and the whole cities there. The next morning, he buys a place of prayer, Peter tracks him down and look, Jesus, they're all looking for you. Human, he said, Wow, I want to go back here to a grand standing ovation. But Jesus said, No,

I'm not going over there. I'm going someplace else to preach the gospel. So souls can be saved. A lot of these people. You see, in John chapter six, we're looking for a handout, they were looking for a meal ticket from wherever. And Jesus wasn't just about filling our hearts. He's about filling our souls with with with holiness, impurity, and forgiveness and mercy. And so one of the keys we're talking about this evening to that can help us learn to be still is that prayer is to find that place, make that an urgent thing in your in your life. And so near me think about Jesus, getting up at the crack of dawn, while it was still dark, made a difference in Jesus day in activities. And he wasn't overwhelmed by the masses of people who are just enamored by His power, and they were looking to see another miracle. He turned away from all of that. So again, these are things that we know about, we just need to be reminded of on a regular basis. So it's just for each of us as we think about the need to be still. We need to understand, God really is in control of his world. And one day all people will come to his throne of judgment. He's the one that's in control, we need to trust him. When we understand that we can learn to be still when we keep our gaze on God that involves prayer and Bible study and even things that we're doing this evening. Yeah, one of the key things that we thought about this navy, find that place of prayer and prioritize it in such a way that we're not distracted. So hopefully, as we go into this week, with all the busyness that sometimes I say I'm not sure what what's the next job I've got to do. But we can we can we can slow down we can be still and know that God is greater than our challenges and keep our focus on him. So great challenge for each of us. And again, it's not an easy thing to achieve, but it is something that we can achieve. So our challenge for the lesson this evening, is just to be still and know God says that I am God. And so we can help each other we can pray with each other and for each others we face the challenges of life and there's someone here this evening that needs to obey the gospel of crisis, great opportunity for you to do so to confess your faith in Jesus repent of your sins, and then submit to God's command. for baptism or or if it just it may be that there may be someone who needs God's help and encouragement and our encouragement if there's any way that we can we can help you come forward while we stand and sing this invitation song


Transcribed by https://otter.ai