Good morning. If you want to be opening your Bibles to Luke chapter 10. That's where we're going to be starting in just a few minutes Luke tin who is the greatest teacher of all time? I have some good ones in my day. I don't think I would have made it through calculus without Mrs. Berenger. Mrs. Richards was full of energy. Mrs. Ross was always kind and helpful. Mr. Whitehead, he was hard, but he challenged my way of thinking. There have been some incredible educators in our schools and colleges, but no one compares. No one compares to Jesus Christ. He was the greatest teacher to ever walk the face of the earth. Of course, his content was amazing. It was divine, he was speaking on behalf of God. But Jesus was the master teacher. Because he understood exactly how people learn. Jesus didn't just come to deliver a message to people and then go back up to heaven. But rather he wanted people to understand God's will. He wanted them to see practically what does this mean to me. I heard one time that there are four aspects of preaching. You have to say it, explain it, illustrate it, and then apply it. Throughout his ministry, Jesus was constantly doing these four things. He was telling people God's word, but then he was explaining it in ways that they could understand. He was providing images and illustrations, so that people could put it in their terms, put it in real life. And then he was challenging his listeners to apply it. This morning, we're going to look at one of the most well known teachings of Jesus, something that even people in our culture talk about today, or they refer to it. In our common vernacular, we have things called Good Samaritan laws. Or we might say that a person stopped and help someone. They were acting as a Good Samaritan. But in this parable, Jesus answers a simple but profound question. And that is, what does it mean to love your neighbor? So read with me in Luke chapter 10, beginning in verse 25. It says, In behold, a certain lawyer stood up and tested him saying, Teacher, what shall I do to inherit eternal life? He said to him, what is written in the law? What is your reading of it? So he answered and said, You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul with all your strength, and with all your mind, and your neighbor as yourself? And he said to him, you have answered rightly do this, and you will live. But he wanting to justify himself said to Jesus, and who is my neighbor? And Jesus answered and said, A certain man went down from Jerusalem to Jericho and fell among thieves, who stripped him of his clothing, wounded him and departed, leaving him half dead. Now, by chance, a certain priest came down that road, and when he saw him, he passed by on the other side. Likewise, a Levite, when he arrived at the place, came and looked and passed by on the other side. But a certain Samaritan, as he journeyed came where he was, and when he saw him, he had compassion. So he went to him and bandaged his wounds, pouring oil and wine and he set him on his own animal and brought him to an end and took care of him. On the next day, when he departed, he took out two dunera and gave them to the innkeeper and said to him, take care of him and whatever more you spend when I come again, I will repay you. So which of these three do you think was the neighbor to him? Who fell among the thieves? And he said, He who showed mercy on him. Then Jesus said to him, Go and do likewise. The setting for this teaching is in verse 25. It's a question that is asked in verse 25, by the lawyer who comes to Jesus, and the question is this, what shall I do to inherit eternal life? This man who comes to speak with Jesus is an expert in the law. He might have been a rabbi, he was likely a teacher himself. But the text says that he came to test Jesus. He wants to see how Jesus will respond to this question. He already has an answer in mind. But he wants to peer in to the thoughts in the mind of Jesus, what shall I do to inherit eternal life? If you're going to ask Jesus a question? You might as well go for the big one. This is the greatest question that one could ask, is there anything more important than the answer to this? What does a person have to do in this life? In order to inherit eternal life after death? Jesus says something that he often did, he responds to the question with a question. He says, what is written in the law each he points the lawyer back to his area of expertise. And Moses, we see has already told God's people what they must do to inherit eternal life. And the man gives a sound answer, he says that to love the Lord your God, with all your heart, soul, strength, and mind. And to love your neighbor, as yourself. These come from Deuteronomy, chapter six, and verse five, Leviticus 19, and verse 18. Those two commands hold up the entire law of Moses, everything is founded on one of those two principles, and that is to love God and love others. Jesus tells the man that he's given the right answer. He didn't have to phone a friend. He didn't ask the audience, it was on his first attempt, he has responded correctly. But knowing the right answer, and applying that in real life are two very different things. When I was in school, I was studying business and there was different areas, concentrations that you could select as your major. They had finance and accounting, and there was marketing and information systems. And then they had one field called management. And I thought about that management, what you could do with that degree and and the natural conclusion was that you could be a manager. And can you imagine a 2122 year old getting a degree in Management, going and talking to companies saying, I'd like to get into your management. I'd like to manage your people and your resources and your budgets. Because I've studied management. That's not how that works, is it? They say, we have an intern position available for you, you can start there, maybe work your way up. But understand understanding, thinking about something just because you know the answer in your mind. That's much different from putting it into practice, in real life, and so the lawyer falls up with a question in verse 29. He says, Who is my neighbor? He wants to know, what are the limits to this command? Who does this apply to? How far does this go? Are you expecting me to be a neighbor to every single person in the whole city? Luke tells us that his motivation for asking this question was to justify himself to defend his current actions, his current attitude about this. And so Jesus tells a parable. To explain to answer this question. He tells about a man who is traveling from Jerusalem to Jericho. Jerusalem is higher in elevation. It's up on a hill In the in the foothills, it's higher up than Jericho. So you would have traveled down towards Jericho and the road during those times would have been very winding and very dangerous. There was it was a deserted place out in the desert, there were no access to resources, there's no food or water along the route. This was a place where thieves and robbers typically would hang out. They could do their business and then escape off into a deserted place where no one would pursue them. We're not talking much about the man who is traveling, perhaps he is a Jew, but the focus is not necessarily on him. But what happens to him. If the text says that during his journey, he is robbed, stripped, beaten, and left for dead. On the road out here, he would have been completely exposed to the elements with little hope of surviving. In verse 31, Jesus says that it was by chance or coincidence that a priest was going down the same road, a priest. At this time, Jericho was a city of priests. And so perhaps this man has just gone up to Jerusalem to perform his temple duties. And he is on his way back home. The priests were sons of air, and they held a special place of importance in the ministry of God's people. Were not told what he was thinking. But after encountering the man, the text says that he passed by, on the other side. In other words, he acted as if nothing was wrong. My mom has told a story about when I was a young child that I used to throw these tantrums if you can believe it. And I would throw myself on the floor and it was like convulsing would start happening. And she was talking to another mother about what to do with this. And the woman told her to just ignore it. And so there would be this child shaking on the floor, and she would just step right over the top of him as if nothing was going on. But it's almost like this priests is just acting like he doesn't even see that there is a man bleeding, dying and hurting on the road. Next, there came a Levi, these were the ministers and the helpers in the temple service. A Levite was a special class of people, special duties and responsibilities. Yet his response is the same when he sees the man who has heard he continues on his way. There's no question that Jesus selected these two groups. He's telling a parable, he's this is not a real story, although something like this could have happened. But He's selecting the people the places the characters to put into the story. And he's doing that to make a point. This would be like telling a story about a an elder and a deacon who went to do something or a preacher and a Bible class teacher. These people were honored and respected among the people and yet we see their response is to pass on. In verse 33, Jesus introduces a Samaritan a Samaritan in any other Jewish story, this would have been the villain. This would have been the bad guy. And as Jesus tells this to the lawyer, those who are listening may have thought well, here comes the Samaritan to finish the job. He's gonna put him out of his minute MIT out of his misery. The Samaritans were a mixed race with a mixed religion and the two sides the Jews and the Samaritans they hated one another. In our thinking, today, this would be like saying, telling a story about someone who's hurts and a member of the Taliban came down the road. And you're thinking, well, the Taliban would never stop to help a random stranger. What's interesting about this account is that Jesus doesn't directly answer the lawyers question, Who is my neighbor? He doesn't go through and list out all the different classes and people and say, well, this person is your neighbor, and this one's not and these people do qualify and these don't, because the question is not who is my neighbor? The question Are you a neighbor? Are you a neighbor to those around you? Look at verse 33. Verse 33, it says, But a certain Samaritan, as he journeyed came to where he was. And when he saw him, he had compassion. To love your neighbor, first of all means that we show a heart of compassion. This man felt sympathy, he showed concern for the hurts and the suffering of another person. If you look around at our culture today, it's obvious that people are greatly divided. We put ourselves into different categories and camps based upon different ideas or views. And if someone from the other side happens to get sick or hurt, well, then that's what they deserved. They shouldn't have been traveling down the road to Jericho. Doesn't this man understand that this is a dangerous place. Why was he traveling by himself and so we come up with reasons to condemn them. In Luke chapter five, there was a man who had come out of one of the cities. And he came to see Jesus he was covered with leprosy. And he came up and he falls down and Luke five in verse 12, and he says, Lord, if you are willing, you can make me clean. What would you do if one of your children fell down and was badly hurt? What would you do if one of your parents your father, or your mother had stumbled and they injured one of their legs? Our natural response is to help people that we care about. But what if it's a stranger What if it is a leper that's covered in source? Luke chapter five, Jesus reaches out and he touches this man and he says, I am willing, be cleansed. Jesus cared about other people. Throughout his ministry, we see that he was motivated, he was moved by compassion and concern for others. And he challenges us he challenges his listeners to extend the borders of our love to show kindness and care to all people. I read a story about a well known World War Two Army medic. His name was Desmond Doss. He was involved in one of the bloodiest battles in the Pacific. And the story was told that the day after the battle, they were going around and they were looking for survivors. And on one of the enemy soldiers, they found American bandages tied around his wounds. He not only helped the men in his company, but he was showing compassion to all those who are involved in the conflict. loving others out of ourselves, starts with heart. It starts with how we see other people, how we think about others, do we view them as a person made in the image of God? Or have we become too calloused to gnome? Are we desensitized to the trouble and the plight that is suffered by those around us? God wants His people to have a soft heart to extend grace instead of judgment. And to put on a heart of compassion. Being a neighbor and loving your neighbor also means that we are willing to step out. Notice all the action words that are used in verse 34. In verse 34, it says so he went to him and bandaged his wounds pouring on oil and wine and he set him on his own animal, brought him to an end and took care of him. In verse 35, it says that he gives the innkeeper additional funds so that he will continue to provide for the needs of this man until he returns. And what we see is this is not some half hearted effort at showing sympathy. He does whatever is necessary to help this person. He uses his own supplies, his own resources, his own animal. Now instead of riding the 18 Miles between Jerusalem and Jericho, this man is walking on foot while some unknown stranger is being carried to safety. Think about the risk that this Samaritan is taking on. He's in a deserted place. Now he is an extra person that he's taking care of what if someone tries to attack him, he's more vulnerable. He's used up his supplies. What if he needs that oil or those bandages later on for one of his own needs? Also think about how this would have looked. A Samaritan walks into Jericho with a man who's been up and robbed and looks half dead. What might people assume about the Samaritan? Did he commit the crime was he involved in this in some way. But we see that he doesn't allow the what ifs to stop him. He doesn't over analyze the situation. He has the courage and the humility to step out in love. loving our neighbor means that if we see a need, and we are in a position to help, than we assist, that we lend a hand, we put others ahead of ourselves. Stepping out requires us to be unselfish it it requires giving up something whether it's our time, our talent, our energy, or resources are strength. Not because we're looking for something in return or some type of praise or payback. But because it's the right thing to do, it's not because this person is so worthy. We don't even know who this man was. He wasn't famous or notable. Jesus doesn't draw attention to that it was just because he was showing concern for another. Stepping out requires action. We can't just hope that someone will have their needs met, that their stomach will be filled, we have to feed them, we can't just wish that someone will feel included. We have to invite them into our lives, bring them into our home. We have to take action. And step out there was a group of us that went hiking earlier this summer at a state park. And someone else and another group had a fall. And apparently she broke her ankle. I wasn't there to see it. But they said it was pretty bad. And there were a couple of nurses in our group that assessed the situation. And they were trying to help her get from where she was back up to the car. But this wasn't a small little girl. This was a grown woman in her 50s. And so getting her from where she was up the sea path was a challenge. Finally, one of the men in our group offered to carry her on his back by himself. I guess he doubles as a professional weightlifter at night. I don't know I still can't figure out how how that all worked. But it was a chance encounter, not something that was planned. And when God places a need in front of us or we see an opportunity to serve, whether it's planned or not, we need to be ready to step out and assist. loving others and being a neighbor also means being free from prejudice. The fact that Jesus makes a Samaritan, the hero of the story is not an accident. He does it to make a point in John chapter four, when Jesus asked the woman at the well who is from Sumeria for a drink of water. She says why are you why are you talking to me? Why are you asking me for a drink? Jews have nothing to do with Samaritans. These two groups were on separate ends of the spectrum because of their history because of their cultures. And notice what he says what the lawyer says in verse a notice what Jesus says in verse 36. So which of these three do you think was the neighbor to him who fell among the thieves? And he said, He who showed mercy to him, the lawyer is not even willing to say the Samaritan. He just refers to him as the one who showed mercy. And what Jesus is doing and using the Samaritan is that he is drawing attention to their prejudice to their bias that the Jews felt toward these people. To love another person means that you have to remove bias. If you are looking down on someone or you're thinking Someone is less than you whether it's because of race or age or economic status. How can you love them? How can you care about them? I used to work with a lady who was from China. And English was her second language and she had an accent. Sometimes it was hard to understand what she was saying, I'd have to ask her to repeat herself. And one day I walked by her desk, and she was on the phone with a family member relative. And she was speaking Mandarin Chinese. And I could not understand one word, one syllable that she was saying that the language is just so different. And I went back to my desk, and I thought, you know, if I had to go to China, and learn their language, I think I would have an accent to Jesus is making the point. That we should be patient with others, we should show empathy instead of resentment. We should show understanding, see things from their perspective and their point of view. It doesn't matter where you come from, whether you're a Jew or a Samaritan or a Gentile. In Romans chapter 10. In verse 12, it says, For there's no distinction between Jew and Greek for the same Lord is Lord of all bestowing his riches on all who call on him. For everyone who calls on the name of the Lord, will be saved. God's grace, His riches are for everyone. Everyone who calls upon the name of the Lord, those who are seeking to serve Him, we're striving to be like God, we're striving to be imitators of Jesus Christ. Jesus came and gave his life not for a specific group of people, not for a certain class, not for a particular age, but he gave himself for the sins of the whole world, every nation. And when we love people, that can't repay us, that are unfaithful that are undeserving of that love. It's in that moment that we are imitating the character of God that we are loving others the way that God loves them free of partiality. Finally, to love your neighbor, and to love others, ultimately means that we point them to God. We point them back to God, we point them back to the greatest command, what is it that someone has to do to inherit eternal life? We share with them what we know about God, if we're compassionate towards others in regards to their physical needs. And in regards to the physical things that they need, why would we not show the same concern and attention for their spiritual needs, the greater need, and one way we can do that is if we're helping someone and they're offering up thanks or praise, they say, Well, this is so nice of you to do this, or I appreciate you so much. You say the credit doesn't belong to me, The credit belongs to God. He's the one who has allowed me to be in the situation. He's the one who's given me this ability, or I wouldn't be where I am today. I wouldn't be in this position if it weren't for what God has done in my life. But people should know that it's not us. It's not because we're so good. We need to point them back to God to direct the attention and the focus where it belongs. This story also reminds us that we need to see the spiritual condition of people around us. We look at people today and they they seem like they're well off. They're financially stable, they're successful, they're talented, they are well liked. But if we peel all of that back, we see a person who is spiritually robbed, be nub, left for dead. And so we need to remember the spiritual needs of people that people have a need for healing, and for hope, and that's only found in Christ. Jesus concludes his words in this section with Go and do likewise. Go and do likewise, this wasn't a lesson just for this lawyer. But for all of God's people throughout all time, when we see the hurts and the needs around us, those that are physical, but more importantly, those that are spiritual that we would expect Then compassion, and see if there's a way that we can help. We're going to close this morning with a song to encourage any who are here that need to respond to the gospel. Jesus said to love the Lord your God with all your heart, soul, strength, and might. And that means that we're willing to submit to Him to do what he said. If you're not a Christian this morning, you need to be baptized, put on the name of Christ. There's something that we can do to encourage you or help you in your walk. Please come down to the front as we stand in seeing


Transcribed by https://otter.ai