It's great to be together again if you want to open your Bibles up to Nehemiah chapter five. After I attended high school, I went to Texas a&m University in College Station Texas and the school is known for having rich tradition there are a number of traditions that are passed down to the incoming freshmen and the subsequent classes. And some of those traditions are considered to be a little bit strange or even weird from people who are not familiar with the university Aggies use different terminology. They say things like howdy and gig them. We we don't share at football games, we yell and so every Friday night before the game, we have a yell practice where we practice our yelling. These activities may seem a bit odd or unnecessary. But as every Aggie knows, those on the outside just don't really understand. They don't understand why these things are so important and necessary. But there is one tradition that a&m has that really resonated with me when I was in school there and that is the Aggie Honor Code. And the Aggie Honor Code states that an Aggie does not lie, cheat, or steal, or tolerate those who do 13 simple words, but their impact is far reaching. This is something that was to be applied in the classroom, on the ball field. And after your time at a&m is done, the hope is that it will be applied in the board room, as well as at the home. This principle is to be broadly applied in every aspect of life. And the reason this is so important is that the school is not just trying to provide students with an education, give them a degree to go out into the world and get an occupation but rather, they're focused on trying to instill character in young people. A person of character is someone who acts with integrity, they choose to do the right thing, even if it's difficult or unpopular. They take responsibility for their actions, and they don't tolerate those who are acting dishonestly. Tonight, I'd like for us to think about Nehemiah, Nehemiah chapter five. And we see from this great text that Nehemiah was a man of character. During his lifetime, he was faced with some incredible obstacles. And yet we see in the way that he responded to those challenges. He was a man of great faith. And the way he responded revealed his true character and his heart. Read with me in Nehemiah chapter five beginning in verse one. It says there was a great outcry of the people and their wives against their Jewish brethren. For there were those who said we our sons and our daughters are many. Therefore let us get grain that we may eat and live. There were also some who said, We have mortgaged our lands and our vineyards and houses that we might buy grain because of the famine. There were also those who said we have borrowed money for the Kings tax on our lands, and vineyards. Yet now our flesh is as the flesh of our brethren, our children as their children. And indeed, we are forcing our sons and our daughters to be slaves. And some of our daughters have been bought, have been brought into slavery. It is not in our power to redeem them. For other men have our lands and our vineyards. In Nehemiah chapter four, the Jews are working on the rebuilding project, they're trying to rebuild the walls that had been torn down and burned with fire. And in the midst of that project, there starts to be opposition that comes from the nations that lived around them. The people in the land did not want Jerusalem to be be reestablished. And so they begin to apply, they begin to apply pressure on the people. They are trying to discourage them with their words. And when that doesn't work, they begin to make threats against them. But Nehemiah, and the people are not deterred in their efforts, they continue building. The text says that they carry their load in one hand and a sword in the other, and they continue to push forward. But here in chapter five, another conflict or issue arises. And it's not from the enemies, the people around them that this comes, but rather it is from within their own people are now taking advantage of those who are vulnerable. There's a couple of issues that are going on here. And the first is in verse three, it says that there was a famine in the land, there's a shortage of grain and so their crops are not producing. But in verse four, it says that they were required to pay a tax to the king. So their land is not giving off as much as it normally would. But at the same time, the tax has not come down, they are still required to pay the Kings tax this financial obligation to the king of Persia. And so they find themselves in a very difficult situation. They had been spending a lot of time and effort and resources in rebuilding the wall. But now, their taxes have come due. And the famine has hit at just the worst time. And so they are put in this terribly difficult situation. Well, in verse three, it says that they try to fix this by mortgaging their fields, their vineyards, they are their houses, they begin giving away the things that were their inheritance, so that they can survive, but it's still not enough. In verse five, it says that they sell their children into slavery. During these times, this was an acceptable practice, if you had a debt that you could not pay, you could offer up one of your children with the hopes or the intent to eventually buy them back. But in this case, they had no way of making any money to redeem them, because they had already given away their fields in Second Kings, chapter four. You remember the story of Elijah, he went to a woman who was a widow. And she told Elijah that her husband had died and that a creditor was now coming to take her two sons to be his slaves. And Elijah tells her to go and to find all of the jars that she can, she brings them back into her home and she begins to fill them up with the oil from her home. And so God works this incredible miracle he increases the oil and she's able to avoid her sons from this being being sold into slavery and avoid this fades. But it just shows this desperate situation that these people are in. Well, with all of this happening. Notice Nehemiah his reaction in verse six. It says in Nehemiah five and verse six, and I became very angry when I heard their outcry. And these words, after serious thought, I rebuked the nobles and the rulers and I said to them, each of you is exacting usury from his brother. So I called a great assembly against them. Nehemiah, first of all, was a man of character because he was angered by injustice. What was the injustice that was being done here? Verse seven says that they were exacting usury. Usury is charging interest that is too high, or charging interest in a circumstance when it should not be charged at all. In the law of Moses, there were special provisions that prevented the Jews from charging interest when they made a loan to another brother. They were not allowed to charge interest to a fellow Jew in Exodus chapter 22, verse 25, it says, If you lend money to any of my people with you, who is poor, you shall not be like a money lender to him, and you shall not exact interest from him. charging interest and benefiting from someone else's financial crisis is wrong. Especially if the person is borrowing to provide just for their basic needs. their basic necessities food and clothing, as was the case with these people. You still see this today excessive interest being charged things like payday loans where a person borrows $100. And then when they get their paycheck, they owe 120. And it becomes very difficult to pay for that interest in those fees, and to remain faithful on your commitments. But when there was a person who was in need, the Lord wanted His people, to help them not to take advantage of them to take advantage of their situation to build up their own wealth, and status. The law had all kinds of provisions to prevent people from becoming perpetually destitute from remaining in a state of poverty for their entire existence. If you sold if you were a slave every seven years you were set free Exodus 21 And verse two. If you sold your land every 50 years, during the Jubilee, the land was returned to its original owner, Leviticus 27 In verse 24, when they harvested their fields, they were instructed to leave the outsides untouched. If a great a great fell off from their vineyard onto the ground, they were told not to pick it up so that the poor would have something to eat Leviticus 19. So God always cared about those who were who were in a vulnerable state. And not allowing interest to be charged was another way of protecting people from the rich abusing them. But in the Mayas day, they were charging so much that the people had to give up their fields. They had nothing left. No houses, no vineyards, and even gave up their children. will notice Nehemiah has response. In verse six, it says that he is very angry about this. He's very angry when he hears what's happening to the people. You ever get very angry about something. You ever get frustrated? When something is happening? Something that bothers you so much that your face starts to turn red, your teeth clenched together. The check engine light is on again. Just just had it in the shop. The traffic is terrible. Someone cut me off. The store is out of my favorite item. The package is three days past when they said it would be delivered. The kids are being crazy. Today, the dishwasher is out. They don't take my coupon. The drive thru took 10 minutes someone drank the rest of the coffee, and didn't tell me about it. And the list goes on and on. But what was it that got Nehemiah fired up? What was it that really bothered him? When his brothers were treating one another fairly, we generally think of anger as a negative emotion and May many times it is when anger is selfishly motivated. When I get angry because someone has offended me, or because I think I haven't received what is do or what I deserve. But Nehemiah was a man of character because his anger was appropriately directed. He was angry when he saw injustice, when people were being taken advantage of or mistreated. This was a display of righteous, godly anger. You remember when Jesus came to Jerusalem before the Passover and John to and as he entered into the temple complex, there were people there who were buying and selling oxygen. They had turned a place of prayer, a place of worship a holy place into a place of business, a market. And seeing this Jesus began to overturn their tables and He made a whip of cords and he started to drive out all of the animals and the people who were selling. And the disciples remembered what had been prophesied that zeal for your house consumes me. It's not wrong for us to feel angry that the Bible says Do not let the sun go down on your wrath. Ephesians 426 But the question is, do we feel angry for the right reasons? When someone mocks God when those Who are weak or helpless are abused or when we see sinful activities sinful conduct being practiced openly. You remember Joseph Are you remember Jonah got upset over the vine. The vine had grown up around him and it provided some shade. And then the next day when it withered, he was angry, angry to the point where he wanted to die. Jonah was upset over he was passionate about his plant. But God rebukes him and says, Should you not care about the people of Nineveh, the people who don't know their left hand from the right. And so his anger was directed in the wrong place, we need to have a similar spirit and attitude that we see here in Nehemiah. Not only was he upset by what he saw happening to his brothers, but Nehemiah was a man of character because he was willing to take initiative, look at verse seven. verse seven says, after serious thought, I rebuked the nobles and rulers and said to them, each of you is exacting usery from his brother. So I called a great assembly against them. Notice what Nehemiah does, he feels upset over what he has seen. But he doesn't react immediately. verse seven says after serious thoughts, the ESV says I took counsel with myself. The NET Bible says I considered these things carefully. Nehemiah takes some time to think about what he's going to do, he doesn't allow his raw emotion just to overwhelm him. And allow him to say or do something that he might regret later, he is thoughtful and under control. And so such a good example for us to follow before we hit send on the email or post on social media, or before we tell someone exactly how we feel about it. Instead, to pause, to consider to think about to sleep on it. And wait till the next day after thinking this through, he settles on his course of action, he calls for a grade assembly. He gets everyone together all of the nobles and officials and he tells them what they're doing is wrong. What's been happening under the table and behind closed doors, the business dealings is now out in front of everyone. Nehemiah is shining a light on this so that everyone can see how these people are being treated. It's not easy to confront someone when they're doing something that is wrong. Especially if that person is well liked and respected. As many of these nobles and officials would have been these are the most prominent members in their society, the ones who have the most influence and the most resources. But Nehemiah doesn't just get upset that an injustice is taking place. He doesn't just tell his his advisors about it, he is moved to action. When Paul saw that Peter was withdrawing himself. And he wasn't eating with the Gentiles, when certain people were around. It says in Galatians chapter two and verse 11, that he opposed him to his face. He opposed Peter Peter, the disciple who had spent three years with the Lord Jesus Christ, the one who was a pillar in the early church. And now a former persecutor of Christians is calling him out. But sin has to be addressed. It has to be confronted. And what the Lord is looking for people of character means that people who have the courage to stand up and say this isn't right. This has to change or something here is is not the way it needs to be. In order to help other people. We have to be willing, in a spirit of love to tell them the truth. taking initiative also requires effort. This wasn't the easiest path for Nehemiah to take. But doing the right thing meant that he had to take action he had to do something about the situation when he saw it. We were driving on the interstates a while back on heading down into Nashville on i 65. and all of a sudden, I saw something out in the road that was in our lane. It looked like some kind of piece of furniture, I think it was a desk. And it had fallen off a truck, apparently. And I guess it was well made because it hadn't exploded into 1000 pieces when it hit the road. But thankfully, we were able to get over and and avoid from hitting it. And after we got past I said, someone needs to move that thing out of the road. That could be dangerous. And then I turn the radio up, and then we kept driving on down 65. And the point is, we are often great at identifying problems. You know, we something needs to be fixed. Something is not going the way it should. But what about taking responsibility to improve the situation, I may not have been the right person to get out on the interstate and pull that thing to the side. But there are lots of emergency and other aid people who you can call that take care, that kind of thing. But Nehemiah not only saw the need around him, but he was a doer. He used his position and the opportunities that God had placed in front of him to make a difference. You say, Well, this thing over here needs to be organized. Well, couldn't I organize it? This needs to be cleaned up. It's a total mess. Could I not be the one to start cleaning it up. Or we never get together. We don't get together often enough. Could I host people into my home. But taking that initiative and being willing to step out and act to the credit of these people that when they are confronted notice what they do in verse 12. Nehemiah 512 says, so they said we will restore it. And we will require nothing from them, we will do as you say, then I called the priests and required an oath from them that they would do according to this promise. This is a total change in attitude from what existed among the people before they went in to captivity. When God would send his prophets to the nation before they had been carried off, to end Babylonian captivity, it was like speaking to a brick wall. The people just didn't listen. They didn't seem to understand or want to change. But here the response is different. They say we will restore we will do as you say in verse 14 through 19, we're giving we're given some interesting information about Nehemiah his personal actions during all of this, how he was dealing with the people. And we see here from verse 14, that Nehemiah was a man who was not motivated by greed. Look at verse 14. It says, Moreover, from the time that I was appointed to be their governor in the land of Judah from the 20th, year until the 32nd, year of King Artaxerxes, 12 years, neither I nor my brothers ate the governor's provisions. But the former governors who were before me laid burdens on the people and took from them bread and wine besides 40 shekels of silver. Yes, even their servants bore rule over the people, but I did not do so because of the fear of God. This is the first time in the book of Nehemiah that we're told that he was the governor over the land, presumably he was appointed by King Arthur Xerxes to be the ruler over this area, this province. And as the governor he was entitled to certain privileges, certain rights, he was allowed to have these provisions of food that were delivered to him to feed his officials in his cabinet. And there was also attacks attacks of 40 shekels of silver. And Nehemiah makes the point that although other administration's other governors had required these things from the people, things that he had a right to collect, he understood the situation. He saw the the desperate needs of the people and so he elected not to take these things. He ended up providing for himself at his own expense. We see that Neoma Lead by example. He wasn't telling the nobles to do something, he wasn't saying don't charge the people interest while he was over here, collecting all of this tax. He was a leader in his actions he led by example. His motivation was not to try to gain as much as possible. But instead he was focused on helping the people doing the things that were in their best interests. Nehemiah was not motivated by greed, it's so common in our culture, today for money for wealth to be the primary factor in why people do the things they do. Oftentimes, people go into government, because they are looking to have a position of power to be able to direct where the contract goes, which vendor gets selected, who ultimately receives the check. And those things are, in a sense, trying to position oneself to gain in some way gained financially. But it's a totally different attitude here from Nehemiah, he didn't accept the position of Governor because he was trying to enrich himself, but instead he was trying to do what's right for God's people. And it's just a reminder to us to be careful to not make material things to not make money and wealth, our primary pursuit in this life. Sometimes we can get into the habit or the race of thinking that it's about more how much can I make or what can I do to increase but as one of the old versus have a song that we sing says there are things that we know that are worth more than silver and gold, focusing on things that truly matter, and not getting sidetracked with the pursuit of wealth. And First Thessalonians chapter two and verse nine. Paul had a similar attitude as Nehemiah he said, For you remember, brothers, our labor and toil, we worked night and day that we might not be a burden to any of you. While we proclaim to you the gospel of God, You are witnesses and God also how holy and righteous and blameless was our conduct toward you, believers. Paul didn't want anything to get in the way of the gospel. And if that meant that he had to work and provide for himself that he was willing to do it, he didn't want his motives to be misconstrued. He didn't want the people to think that he was just in it for himself. And in every way he was blameless, and righteous in His conduct. And the same should be said of the way that we conduct ourselves as well. Finally, we see that Nehemiah was a man of character, because he walked in the fear of God. Look at verse 15. Again, it says, but the former governors who are before me laid burdens on the people and took from them bread and wine besides 40 shekels of silver, yes, even their servants bore rule over the people. But I did not do so because of the fear of God. It says that Nehemiah restrained himself that he didn't dominate over the people because of the fear of God. That phrase is also used in verse nine, when it says, when he's speaking to the nobles, and he says, Should you not walk in the fear of our God, because of the reproach of the nations are enemies. So this idea of walking in the fear of God, and really, that's what the Christian life is all about fearing God, fearing God means that we honor him that we respect his word, that we are careful to do what he says because we know that it leads to life, that that is the path of life. It means that we're not going to take advantage of another person, because we fear God, we're not going to talk down or tear down another person, because we have respect and honor for God. Everything that we do should be from that perspective. It also carries with it the idea of accountability, we are going to be held accountable for the things that we do. Nehemiah understands that he could probably get away with this he could collect the tax he could place a burden on the people he could charge interest and the king of Persia who lives 1000s of miles away. will probably never say one thing about it or never even find out about it. But he knows that God would have seen God would have been aware of how he was treating the people he walked, he conducted himself in the fear of God. No one else may know what we're doing, what we're thinking how we're acting. But walking in the fear of God means that we are blameless, that we live with integrity, whether the cameras are on and the mic is hot, or if we're by ourselves, and we think no one is watching. In Proverbs, Chapter 19, in verse 23, it says, The fear of the Lord leads to life, and whoever has it rests satisfied, he will not be visited by harm. That was the guiding principle for his life. Nehemiah was able to rest and to be satisfied with his work as he walked in the fear of God. We're gonna close tonight with a song of encouragement and opportunity for us to think about our walk with God, are we people of character? Are we modeling ourselves after the character of Christ? And if there's someone here that needs to respond to the gospel to become a Christian, and this is an opportunity for you to come forward, please come down to the front as we stand and sing


Transcribed by https://otter.ai