Good morning. If you want to be opening your Bibles up to First Timothy chapter two. I appreciate the songs that Bryce led for us. And for the words that Justin spoke before we took the Lord's supper together. And for each one of you for your presence being with us this morning, it's a blessing to be able to be together with God's people to worship and to study from his word. A few weeks ago, I took a couple of my girls with me to go and run a few errands and we made some stops around town, and one of the places we needed to go was to Walmart. Walmart has everything if you can find it. But whenever we go to the store, it usually goes something like this. The kids are looking at all of the different items on the shelves. Daddy, can we get this doll? Daddy, I need a new bike helmet. Daddy, can we get one of these for our garden. And oftentimes, when we get back up to the front of the store, we'll be unloading the shopping carts, and there will be items in the basket that I don't remember putting in there. I didn't know we needed glitter nail polish today. But the few weeks ago, we were in the exercise sporting goods section. And I was trying to decide what I was going to get. And the kids were doing their thing going down the aisle looking at everything. And one of them picked up a box that had a picture of a woman and exercise clothes. And when the older saw what the younger was holding in her hand, she looked at her and she said Do not touch that. She is dressed unappropriate and from the mouth of babes. Why would you look at someone who is not wearing any clothes. This time of year we are as the temperatures begin to drop, we are changing our house over our closets get changed over from warmer weather clothes to cooler temperature attire. And so maybe we are thinking about the clothes that we wear the dress that we put on. And so I'd like for us to think about this topic of modesty of the heart. And we're going to start in First Timothy chapter to begin reading with me in verse eight. First Timothy two in verse eight. It says I desire therefore that men pray everywhere, lifting up holy hands without wrath and doubting, in like manner also that the women adorn themselves in modest apparel with propriety and moderation, not with braided hair or gold or pearls or costly clothing, but which is proper for women professing godliness, with good works. Let a woman learn in silence with all submission. Paul is writing to Timothy. And he gives a number of instructions of how both men and women are to conduct themselves what their manner of living should be like. And we think about modesty of the heart. This really starts first of all, with an emphasis on inner beauty. Paul, Paul says in verse eight, that the men should pray everywhere, but it's not just the act of saying prayers. But he says that this should be done with an emphasis on the heart they should pray with holy hands. They should be pure and blameless. Their attitude should be free of wrath and quarreling. So God is focused on the the character of the man who is praying. And then in verse nine, he focused he switches his attention to the women. And he says that they should adorn themselves verse nine. in modest apparel, the ESV translates that word modest as respectable apparel. The New American Standard says that this is proper clothing. So she should wear attire that is appropriate dress that is appropriate. What does it mean to wear appropriate clothing? That's really the question, isn't it? And we think in terms of modest dress, we generally think about Under dressing wearing too little we live in a culture that is absolutely obsessed with the sexualization of the female body everywhere you turn billboards, commercials, advertisements, is all about displaying a woman's body. But here, Paul is not talking about under dressing necessarily. He's more speaking to this idea of over dressing. And so he mentions braiding of hair, gold pearls and costly clothing. This letter was written to Timothy when he is working in Ephesus. Ephesus was one of the major port cities in the Roman Empire. It's in modern day, Turkey, it was a cosmopolitan center. They had lots of culture and commerce that was going on, there was all kinds of high profile people that would be coming through this city. Ephesus was the the home to the temple of the god Artemis. And that was considered one of the seven ancient wonders of the world, this spectacular, spectacular structure that people would come from all over, in order to see it with all the status and the wealth that was in the city, it would be common to see women who were dressed in very elaborate clothing, they would style their hair in a certain way they would wear expensive journal jewelry, this would all be done to signify their position, their their status, and their influence. And by their dress, they would draw attention to themselves. You remember what James said and James chapter two, about one who comes into the assembly. And they are dressed in fine clothes and they have a gold ring on their hands. And what does he cautioned the brother against doing? He says that you show attention you offer preference to one who's dressed in that way. And you give them your you show them to a good seat, you give them favor because of what they're wearing. Modest stress does not direct the focus towards the outward. But instead the emphasis is on the inside what's inside of a person. Notice verse 10. It says that she has to profess godliness with good works. That when people see when they look at this woman, they would see her inner beauty, they would see the type of character the type of heart that she has. And so whether it's wearing too much with extravagant clothing or wearing too little, our dress, the things that we put on should not be the focus of who we are. In first, in First Peter chapter three. In verse three, it says Do not let your adorning be external, that braiding of hair and the putting on of gold jewelry, or the clothing that you wear. But let your adorning be the hidden Person of the heart with the with the imperishable beauty of a gentle and quiet spirit, which is in God's sight is very precious. There was one afternoon that we were looking through some of the pictures from our wedding. And the kids were there with us. And we came to one picture and one of the kids said, Daddy, you and Mommy look different. And different is just a nice way of saying that you look a lot younger in these pictures. But do you know anyone who has found the secret of imperishable beauty? There are some people who do age very gracefully. But the fact is they still age. Our hair turns gray. Our skin begins to wrinkle. Our bodies change shape, and form we aren't as young as we used to be. But Peter says that it is possible to obtain imperishable beauty. Beauty that is lasting and unfading how does a person obtain that? How do we do that? He says by adorning the heart with a gentle and quiet spirit adorning the attention should be on the hidden Person of the Heart, the things that you can't see the hair, the eyes, the lips, the clothes. Those are what grabs the eyes of those in the room. But what is it that gets God's attention? What is it that is precious in his sight? We see here it is the attitude a humble and gracious spirit. What is it that made Esther?

so special?

What was it about Queen Esther that caused her to be adored by her people. And even now, generations later families will name a daughter after this great woman. Well, in Esther chapter two and verse seven, it tells us that she had a beautiful figure, and was lovely to look at. When the request came to find a new queen for the nation, they brought hundreds of women to the palace and Esther was selected. And she went through 12 months of these beautification treatments so that she would be ready to stand before the king and ultimately the king of Persia. Hatteras chooses her to be the next Queen over the empire. But what was it that what what was her legacy? What was it that we remember, and revere her for? It's not because of her stunning physical appearance. In fact, we don't even know what she looked like. But instead, it was her character. It was her courage, her willingness to sacrifice to be selfless, to put her own life on the line for the good of her people. And so when we think about modesty, of heart, there needs to be this emphasis on inner beauty. You think about how much money is spent on the fashion industry, on clothes, on makeup on products on different types of services and treatments. But as God's people are our focus our our goal is not just the physical. But instead we are trying to develop a character this imperishable beauty. We think about the purpose of clothes, we see that Paul and Peter said that it's not to be directing attention to ourselves trying to stand out. I think it's helpful to go back to the beginning when we consider why we need clothes. In the first place. Look with me in Genesis chapter three. In Genesis chapter three, in the garden, at the beginning of time when God had first created man, we see this important truth that clothing is intended to cover. Clothing is intended to cover Genesis Chapter two ends with the following statements. The man and his wife were both naked and were not ashamed. before sin came into the world, when God had created man and woman. They were in this perfect relationship with him. There were no barriers between the creator and the created. He provided for all of their needs. They were in this beautiful lush paradise garden. There was no sin. There was no pain, there was no death. And there was no shame. But those things wouldn't last. Or that state wouldn't last. After Eve encounters the serpent. She is tempted and deceived. And after eating from the tree, she gives some of the fruits who her husband and notice what Genesis chapter three and verse seven says. Then the eyes of both of them have both were opened and they knew that they were naked. they sewed fig leaves together and made themselves loincloths. In Genesis chapter three, in verse five, the serpent had told Eve, that if she were to eat from the tree, her eyes would be opened. And we see the implications of that that she would know both good and evil. And here in verse seven, the immediate result they become aware, their eyes are opened and they realize is that there is a problem? Have you ever considered the fact that humans are the only creatures on earth that were close? You can look throughout all of the animal kingdom you won't find any other living thing covering itself up with outside material. And it's not just a modern day occurrence in every culture. Throughout all of human history, we find people are wearing clothes and Genesis helps explain that fact to us. Well, question, why would Adam and Eve feel compelled to cover themselves after eating from the tree? After all, they are the only people on earth there's no one else around. So why would they need to cover themselves? Well, after they ate from the tree, sin entered the world. They became aware of evil. And perhaps they realized what humanity would now be capable of. This was the door that was now opened up to things such as murder, and lust, and adultery and rape and stealing. When sin was introduced, they lost something. They lost their innocence and in that shame, they felt the need the need to conceal their most intimate parts, and it says that they sewed together fig leaves to make a loincloth. A loincloth is just a very primitive covering that goes around the loins. But we see in the Genesis account that this minimal covering doesn't seem to suffice. Because look at what it says in verse eight, and nine. It says that they heard the sound of the LORD God walking in the garden and the cool the day, and the man and his wife hid themselves from the presence of the LORD God among the trees of the garden. But the Lord God called to the man and said to him, where are you? Adam hides himself from the presence of the Lord. He knows that there is something that's not right, his conscience is telling him that he is exposed. The Lord doesn't just leave them in this state. The Lord doesn't just say, well, you need to figure it out on your own you you created this mess. And so now you got to get yourself out of it. No, as he always does, he reaches out to his creation. He seeks after them. And he provides for the man and his wife away for it, although there would be punishment and consequences associated with their sin. God's still cares for his children in Genesis chapter three, and verse 21. It says in the Lord God made for Adam and for his wife garments of skin, and clothed them. The New King James translates that word garment as tunic. A tunic was a piece of clothing that hung on the shoulders, and then went down to the knees. This same Hebrew word is found in Genesis 37. And verse three when it says that Israel made a robe or a coat of many colors for his son, Joseph. So why did God need to make clothes for Adam and Eve? The simple answer is to cover them. He needed this very rudimentary garb that they had quickly sewn together was ultimately insufficient. And so the Lord takes these animals skins, and he prepares for them something that is more suitable, and appropriate. We also see this as made from the skin of an animal, many have suggested, I tend to agree that this is an allusion to the first sacrifice, the first animal sacrifice, that this skin came from one of the animals, perhaps one that Adam himself had named previously. But now the man and his wife have come to face the terrible reality that without the shedding of blood, there is no forgiveness of sins. There's also this idea of atonement. It's a biblical theme that goes throughout the scriptures. The idea that that sin must be covered up And so in this instance, God literally atones, he covers up the shame of the man and the woman. So why is all this important? Well, it reminds us that the ultimate reason the purpose of wearing clothes is to cover the body. Clothes can have secondary purposes, they can keep us warm, they can shield us from the sun, they can say something about us. But ultimately, they should be designed to cover our shame. Clothing is a reminder to us, of the fallen state of this world. And for those who say that modesty is not important, or it's not a big deal, or it's not necessary, they're ultimately dishonouring god, they're dishonouring what God intends for His creation, they pretend to live in a world of innocence, that simply no longer exists. Not only is our clothing intended to cover, but also notice that dress communicates a message. What we say what we wear says something to those around us in the story of Judah and Tamar. In the book of Genesis, Tamar his husband had died, and she was promised that she would be given Judah's youngest son, she would have to wait for a period of time, but ultimately, she would have the rights to remarry his son, but that ended up not occurring. And so she came up with this very intriguing plan or odd plan to disguise herself as a prostitute and to go and sit by the city gates, and then to sleep with her father in law. That's a study for another time. But notice what it says in Genesis chapter 38 And verse 14, it says she took off her Widow's garments and covered herself with a veil wrapping herself up and sat at the entrance of a Nanum, which is on the road to Timnah. For she saw that Sheila was grown up and she had not been given to him in marriage. When Judah saw her he thought she was a prostitute, for she had covered her face. Judah took her for one of the temple, women that was part of the Colt prostitute, a temple prostitute. Because of where she was, and the fact that she had covered her face. We used to live in South Nashville. And when we first moved into our house, we were getting to know our neighbors. And there was one particular neighbor that was very interesting. We noticed that they would often have cars that would come to their house. And these young girls would get out of the car or they'd be dressed in shorts, shorts and a tiny tank top and they'd go into the house, stay for an hour or two, and then a car would come and pick them up. And they would leave. And after seeing this for several weeks, we came up with the the idea the thoughts that they were running a prostitution ring, right across the street in our neighborhood. So we decided to get some more information about this. And we started Googling and trying to figure out who owns this house and, you know, can we be a part of taking this operation down. And in our searching, we came to find out that it wasn't a brothel. It instead was a tutoring service for high school and college age students. Now, how can we get that wrong? Well, after seeing what their clients were dressed in, we made an assumption about who they were and what they were doing. In our culture, a prostitute advertises their services by showing off their body you can tell what they have to offer by the way that they're dressed. But in Genesis 38 Tamar, she takes off her widows garments that would have signaled a period of mourning, a period of sadness, she puts on a veil and places herself by the city gates and by doing this, she is now communicating to those passing by that she is available. And the point to take from this is that dress even in this time, various types of dress signaled a message and it's true for us today. Our dress, sends a message In Proverbs chapter seven in verse 10, it speaks of the adulterous woman. And it says that when she went to meet the young man, she was dressed with the attire of a harlot. And so what we need to think about today is just, what is the message that our clothing sins to those around us, whether it's over dressing or under dressing we should consider is this outfit is what I'm wearing, is it sending the message that I intend to be communicated? It's important because even if our clothes do cover the body, there is still a message that is sent often it can be an unintended message to those around us. And that brings us to our last point this morning, which is that our culture is not the standard. Our culture is not the one who defines what God's people should do, how they should live their lives. In Matthew chapter 15, in verse 14, it says, Let them alone, they are blind guides. And if the blind lead the blind, both will fall in to the pit. We think about appropriate dress for godly women today, if we use the standard of what is popular if we use the model of what's in the stores, what's being sold, what's online, what do we see on social media? That is like the blind leading the blind. This may be hard to believe. But the people who design clothes today are not in a room somewhere in New York City thinking about how can we put something out there that will honor and glorify God and Heaven? How can we make a piece of clothing that will not detract that will not to draw undue attention to the body, but instead, it will be modest it will be covering. In fact, the exact opposite is true, they know that there is appeal,

that there is sexual appeal.

And that that ultimately sells products that that gets clicks their likes, people will watch a video they'll read an article when there's some type of immodest dress that's being exposed. And so they are creating the clothing. With that in mind. Have you ever noticed that there is a major double standard when it comes to the clothes that men and women wear just a couple of examples and figure skating. You see, the man is almost in a full suit, his pants go all the way down to his skates. The female is dressed and basically nothing out there on the ice. We look at formal attire, formal attire has basically remained unchanged for men over the last few 100 years. A dress shirt that's buttoned all the way up to the neck, and then a jacket that goes over the top of it. But ladies are asked to wear dresses that expose their chest, their back, their neck, all all the way the to the top, their their chest and their shoulders. And even in sports. Think about watching a football football game. Have you ever seen a older woman with gray hair down on the sideline? Giving the report about what's going on? On the field? No, it's always a young, beautiful lady. But you look up in the broadcast booth, you got guys in their 70s that are still calling the game. And so the point is, the world has a completely upside down view on what is good and right and acceptable. Our culture worships those who are younger and especially those who are beautiful. They want to turn the woman's body into something that is to be stared at for the enjoyment of others. And if we allow our standard, our tastes, our preferences, our style, to go right along with what the world is doing that we will find ourselves falling into that fleshly mindset. Think about it like this. We don't allow the world to tell us what marriage should be. We don't allow the world to define marriage We don't allow the world to tell us. What does it mean to be truthful? The world has a very different standard on truth, and on telling the truth. So why would we ask the world to tell us what the standard for how we dress should be the type of clothes that are appropriate. The world standard is also a moving target. Take the example of basketball shorts in the 1960s. During the Bill Russell area, I don't even know if I can watch a game where the players are dressed like this. But then in the 70s, there was slight change with Larry Bird, not much but but some slight change. In the 1980s, there was a little progress downward with Michael Jordan. And then in the 90s, there was now they're starting to actually look like what we would call basketball shorts. And then in the 2000s, we got the headband going on with the some other with little longer shorts, and then up to 2010. And now 2021, starting to come back in the other direction, the players are starting to wear shorter shorts. And the point is, if if we're asking the people around us, our culture will how should we dress ourselves, depending on the decade we find ourselves in, we're going to get a different answer. And maybe even the part of country or the part of the world that we live in, there's going to be all kinds of ideas about what we should wear. Our culture has a wide array of expectations on dress, when you go to school or work, you're expected to dress a certain way. And there's a certain type of dress that's required. But then when you go to the gym, to work out, you can basically wear your underwear and you're not stopped at the door, you're not said you can't come in here. And so there's all this variability between what the world finds acceptable. But God is looking for consistency with his people. God wants His people to have an attitude, a heart of modesty, no matter what this issue situation might be. So whether we are at school, or going to a friend's house, or getting ready for a jog, or we are going out with friends, or even if we're playing a sport, or it's our wedding day, God wants us to be consistent. This is this is a hard subject. It's a hard topic. It's not easy to navigate this, there's a lot of judgment that's involved and living with a wife. And now three daughters, I've come to appreciate how difficult how challenging it can be to try to find clothes that don't objectify the woman's body, whether that's because it's too tight, or too low or it's see through or has a hole in the front or the back. Sometimes ladies can feel like there's just no options. But we have to constantly go against what the world sees, as Okay, and to seek to live in a way that glorifies God. I like this quote from one writer he said clothes are not meant to make people think about what's under them. Clothes are meant to direct attention to what is not under them. Merciful hands that serve others in the name of Christ, beautiful feet, they carry the gospel where it is needed, and the brightness of a face that has been held the glory of Jesus. Jesus said in Matthew chapter six and verse 25, I tell you, therefore, do not be anxious about your life, what you will eat or what you will drink nor about your body. What you will put on Is not life more than food and the body more than clothing. Jesus says this life is not all about the physical, the clothes that we wear, the food that we eat, the houses that we live in. May God help us to set our mind on things above and to seek to be like him and everything that we do. We're going to close this morning with an invitation song and it's an opportunity for any who may be here that need to respond to the gospel call to submit your life to Christ in every aspect. In your words, and your conduct. And in your dress. You can be baptized for the forgiveness of your sins and begin a new walk with the Lord if there's something that we can do To help you or encourage you this morning please come down to the front as we stand and sing


Transcribed by https://otter.ai