In case you might be confused, I've not changed my name to Gilbert. I'm still David but he is with his father who is not doing well. And so I'm glad to be able to stand before you and hope we can be encouraged by the words that I had to speak this evening. want to begin by citing Paul's words the church in Philippi, in Philippians, the fourth chapter, but I rejoice the Lord greatly. That now at length you have revived your thought for me. When you did indeed take thought, but you lacked opportunity. Nonetheless, speak in respect of one four I've learned whatever state I am, Varian, to be content. I know how to be abased I know also how to bound in everything and are all things have earned the secret both to be filled, and to be hungry, both were bound to be in one. And you yourselves also know you Philippians that are the beginning of the gospel, what are departed from Macedonia, no church, I Fellowship with me in the matter of giving and receiving but you only for evil in Thessalonica. You said once again to my need. Not that I seek for the gift, but I seek for the fruit that increases to your account. But I have all things at a bound. I am filled, having received for Pafford itis the things that came from you, and odor of a sweet smell and acceptable sacrifice, well pleased to God, and My God shall supply every need of yours according to his riches in glory in Christ Jesus. Now unto our God and the Father be the glory forever and ever. Amen. So if you're aware that my wife and I have been working in other nations for many years, in Jamaica for over 30 years, as there are a number of this congregation that have also worked with us in Jamaica, our family and others in the congregation here. And in the summertime, we have vacation Bible school, and we rent a van or a bus and go throughout the neighborhoods pick up keys bring them so driving down the road one day, and I saw this woman Sandra green, with six children, father of her own, and one whose mother had died. The father didn't water. Sandra says you take her and Sandra's husband has abandoned the family and who knows where he is and what did he whatever help he is given to her. So she started bringing her children to our vacation bible school in Florida and I asked her if we kill up and visit with her and her family one day. And she gave us directions on how to find the place. And that's where there's seven other lives. A little shack made out of scrap lumber and cardboard and 10 Whatever he had little cooking shed to the side with a one borders kerosene stove on it. That's about it. But here are the seven I've lived and then she opened the door and invited us inside and put a sign on the wall. Thank you, Lord. My needs are met. And he gets mine. Hallelujah. Thank you, Jesus. I cried. I cried. Hear this poor woman had literally nothing. She said I have all I need. I have all I need we become some of yous of the poverty in Jamaica. But I had not come across anything like this. Until Sandra and fake receipt of ties a few days later. She eventually went to England to get some work and send money back home. For those who are caring for children. That's pretty common. Inside the little shack there were two beds a double bed and a single bed. That's where the civil although slip. That was it so what does that say to you? You and I live in a fluid generation fluence that the Earth has not known in previous generations that we have so many they're not satisfied. Even sometimes some of us children of God, who were not satisfied and how was it the apostle Paul, who was languishing in a prison cell could write the words he did. But I did it for eight. I have all things bound. I am filled. Paul was in the memory in prison in Rome, which is still there. And some years ago for an hour, privileged to be there you go in three level, go down one level, go down two levels below ground. In a cell it's walk gold down. And Paul could say, I have all things. I want us to think about these things as we look what God supplies to us. As we consider Sandra's words, my needs are met. Why do we worry? When we have such a Providence God? Can we say with Sandra that my needs are met. So why is that we worry so much. He is a God who supplies our needs. Genesis 1415. God bless Joseph. He blessed us when said the God before who my father's Abraham and Isaac did walk the God who has fed me all my life long until this day. For Philippians 419 Paul wrote, and My God shall supply every need of yours, according to the riches and glory in Christ Jesus. He fills us with the things that we need. He feels also not just our physical things, but the things of the Spirit. 65th Psalm blesses the man whom you choose and causes to approach unto you, that he may dwell on your courts. We shall be satisfied with the goodness of your house, your holy temple, did the 84th song for Jehovah God is a son and a shield. Jehovah will give grace and glory, no good thing will he withhold from them that walk uprightly he is such a praise Gracious God, that his blessings extend even to our children. 103rd Psalm with a loving kindness of Jehovah is from everlasting to everlasting upon them that fear him and his righteousness unto children's children to such as keep his covenant, and to those that remember his presets to do them. Then the question is, what more could we ask? But it seems so many, always one more, more, more close, newer cars, bigger houses, better TVs, remodeled kitchens, bigger closets, better paying jobs, more prestige, greater power, whatever it is, so many just want more and more and more. That's always on their minds. Reminds me of the song. It's an old song that has the words in it, looking for love in all the wrong places. Looking for love in all the wrong places as to things that are really satisfy our needs. All you have to do to confirm this is the look at the Hollywood stars. Those who are beauty, fame, money. As far as the world goes, they have everything you'd ever want to ever ask for. And yet And yet, they're among the world's least secure as in time looks fade. RICHARD MAY be lost power taken away. And so many times they turn to adultery, drugs, alcohol and suicide. Suicide because they find life is so empty. And that's the futility of trusting and things of the world. Let the 12 chapter one out of the multitude settled him teacher Bid my brother divided the inheritance with me. But he said to him, man, thank you, who made me a judge or divider over you. And He said to him, Take heed and keep yourself small covetousness for a man's life consists not in the abundance of the things which he possesses. And he spoke a parable unto them saying, the grant of a certain rich man brought forth plentifully. And it reached within himself saying, What shall I do because I have not where to store my fruits. at all with this logic, I'll pull down my barns and build greater and they're all bestow on my grain and my goods, and I will say to my soul, so you have much goods later for many years. Take your easy drink, and be merry. When God said to him, you fool this night as your soul required of you. And the thing would you repaired, who shall be saucy the lays up treasure for himself, it is not rich toward God. We can't take it with us are the story of a fella died that had a good deal of money. And he told the preacher, a good friend. He gave him a certain sum of money, and said at the funeral, I want you to put that in my cache with me. I won't take it with me. So after the funeral, the preacher his friend, were talking to one another. And the friend said, will I put my money in the casket? Did you use? Yes, I wrote a check and put it in. LCL couldn't deal with him, so couldn't deal with it. Later, have yourself treasures upon the earth where moth and rust consume, where thieves break through and steal. Where are our treasures? Where do we lay up treasures? My grandfather said. Even if you could take it with you, you'd probably get burned up the first night anyhow. Still wouldn't do you any good. Saying he's done his job very well and giving us cotton candy and convincing us that it's good nutritious, filling food. I guess you might say the goal of Psalm is to be the richest man in the cemetery. To be will come and marvel at his tomb, and how much money he had. The materialism is not just an American problem. In an African village, their motto is our problem is greed. If a man has one cow, he wants to he wants to. So what is the secret of contentment? One thing has to do with learning to distinguish between needs and wants. Perhaps that's one of our greater difficulties. Do we use the words need and want interchangeably? I need a new car. Well, mine's five years old cost 75,000 miles. I need a new dress while I've only got 50 and some of them are getting out of style. So I need a new one quarter ball being eroded in Philippians 419, My God shall supply every need of yours. It doesn't say he's the by every watt of yours, every need of yours, according to his riches and glory in Christ Jesus. So we need to learn to distinguish. We also need to learn to replace worry with trust in God. Why worry? When you can trust Why worry when you can pray. One federal emphasize this with a sign he put up why trust when you can worry. He thought worry would solve his problems, worries destructive to good health, to positive action and to favored God. Because in a sense, it shows we don't trust him. God has told us Do not worry. Matthew six and Therefore I say unto you have been arranges for your life, what you shall eat or what you should drink. Yet for your body. What you shall put on is not a lot more than the food and the body then the Raymond be on the verge of the heaven that they sold on neither do they reap nor gather into barns and your heavenly Father feeds them. Aren't you much more value than they are, and which either being anxious can add one cue to the measure of his life. Why are you anxious concerning Raymond consider the lilies of the field, how they grow, they talk a lot, they do they spin, you are saying to you that even Solomon in all his glory was not arrayed like one of these. But if God does so clothes, the grass of the field, which today is and tomorrow was casted the oven, shall he not much more cloth you? Or you little phase. Be not therefore anxious, saying, What shall we eat? Or what shall we drink? Or what will also be closed after all these things that Gentile See, for your heavenly Father knows that you have need of all these things? Let's seek you first. His kingdom and His righteousness, and all these things shall be added unto you. Be not therefore anxious for the morrow, for the moral will be anxious for itself. Sufficient unto the day is the evil. They're all sufficient to the day is the evil they're all and think about it. What positive thing has wery ever done for you? I'm ever encouraging some time ago. Okay, get all your bills, pile on the kitchen table. And sit up all night and worry about them and then count the builds up the next morning. So what has you worried done all night? Just made you sleepy. Also, we need to learn to replace covetousness with contentment. And that may take some time for some for the world around us certainly promote covetousness you may have heard of Ted Turner, one of our fellows from the Atlanta area who has had a fortune. How did he make his fortune advertising billboards, urging people to buy buy, buy buy this buy that buy the other? Everywhere you turn it's buy this lease this? There on your credit card, take out a loan. It's really hot this year, you gotta have it. But remember the words of Jesus. Take heed and keep yourselves from all covetousness. For a man's life consists not in the abundance of the things which he possesses. Take he'd give serious thought to this manner. And don't practice covetousness if it were true, that possessions are what life is all about. Then how do you explain the happiness of people who have little or nothing in the world. Some years ago on one of our trips to the Philippines of working over there. I was having a conversation with a young woman named Ruth Pasquale. She's the daughter of one of the preachers that our church was supporting. That is a pretty simple life. I asked her one day Ruth you could have anything you wanted. What would you like to have? She said I need nothing counsel David. I am content there's a couple of girls behind the house. Drawing waterfall well, they use that for washing dishes washing clothes and for bathing. You take a tub of water into that little room behind you there and you dump water on your head and scrub do whatever you can do that's how they would take a bath then I after you know what you read. Okay, I'll go David. I would like to have a motorcycle for my father. No Jeep for my father. Her father who Elio preach for two churches. One road closer where they live, and one way out of the country over a dirt road. And he'd had two accidents on that because it was kind of a dangerous journey. And all she could think of was something to help my dad in his preaching. That's all she can think about. That's a bad it's not real comfortable. But I guess you're used to it. You sleep on that. You put a sheet over here to keep the flies and mosquitoes off. Thankfully, they're doing better now. But that's what we first encountered. Or it creeps over there Philippians four. And I thought I speak in respect of want for I've learned in whatsoever state I am there into the content. I know how to be abased I know all zero bound in everything and an all things have earned the secret vote we failed to be hungry, both were bound and to be in one. So how can people be so happy when they have nothing all explained. Because there were certainly times in his life when he had nothing but he had nothing. We need to learn to count our blessings rather than our burdens. For us on verse five, many Oh, Jehovah my god are the one of a word which you have done, and your thoughts which are to us word, they cannot be said in order unto you. If Allah declare and speak of them, they are more than can be numbered. There's not a one of us. There's don't have more blessings, than we have burdens. If we can focus on our blessings, rather than things that are bad, life will be better for us in every way. So what to do with our abundance that we have? We can share with the Lord. Second Corinthians last chapter, this I say, he did so sparingly, shall reap also sparingly and either sows bountifully shall reap also bountifully. Ladies band do according as he is purposed in his heart not grudgingly nor necessity, for God loves a cheerful giver. And with his attitude is how we carry on the Lord's work. I know the church here has been supporting preachers and other areas of this country as well as in other parts of the world, for a good bit of good period of time. And we should always be interested in spreading the gospel throughout the world as far as we can marshal that in fancy buildings and all good trappings, you know, so that our budget is used mostly in spreading the word of God. And this will continue. As the word spreads in other areas, in other parts of this country, or even of the world, there'll be other needs. That we can help to supply as we give generously, of what we have. Well, is the more that we can do. What we as a congregation can do depends about what you and I as individuals do. Not just in a financial way. But when we talk to our neighbors, our friends, our co workers we need to be carriers for the gospel. Not just leave it up to the preachers but responsibly given to every one of us. Sometime in the future, I'll probably have a lesson on there. I've got a few that the deal with it. Remember that the church is a pillar in grammar The truth is borrowed to Timothy bottari long a you know how men ought to behave themselves or the house of God, which is the church that have been God the pillar and ground of the truth. So as we then support the church and give so that the church may do more in helping to spread the gospel in this community as well as throughout the world. We can also share what we have with those indeed, actually fourth chapter, the multitude of the belief or one heart and soul, and not one of them said that any of the thing which you possess was his own, or they had all things common for either was there among them anything lacked for as many as were possessors of lands or houses, sold them and brought the prices of the things that were sold, and lay them at the apostles feet. The distribution was made into each according to his new one had the my thinking on this is that after after Pentecost with 1000 baptize and the number soon grew to be 5000 on that many people from these 15 nations that are countries that were covered were stayed there to learn more for a time. Well, basically run out of money, they didn't have any more money for the days in or for Holiday Inn. And then he needed help. So the brethren who lived in Jerusalem, they did what they could, to supply their needs. Whatever was they made sacrifices themselves for their needs. There were only 15. if there'd be with you, a poor man, one of your brethren within any of your gates of your land was Jehovah your God gives you You shall not harden your heart door, shut your hand from your poor brother. But thou shall surely open your hand unto him and shall surely lend him sufficient for his need. In that which he wants, you shall surely give him and your heart shall not be grieved when you give unto him because that for this thing, Jehovah God will bless you at all your work, and an all you put your hand on to, for the poor will never cease out of the land. Therefore I commend you saying you shall surely open your hand out to your brother, to your needy, and to your poor in your land. And there are also those in the world that we come in contact with, from time to time Mark, 14, seven, year the poor with you always. And once wherever you will, you can do them good. But you have been not always while there are some blessings that will come, if we learn and practice these lessons. First, God will bless us, like 638 Give it should be given to you good measure, pressed down and shaken together running over, shall they given your bosom, for with what measure you meet, it shall be measured to you again, Second Corinthians nine. And he does supply a seed to the sower and read for food shall supply multiply your seed for sowing and increase the fruits of your righteousness, you being enriched and everything and to all immorality, which works through us, thanksgiving to God and their treasures in heaven. First ever the six charge them the rich in this present world, that that'd be not high minded or have their home set on the uncertainty originals, but on God, who gives us richly all things to enjoy, that they do good, that they be rich and good works, that they be ready to distribute. What did he communicate, laying up in store for themselves a good foundation against the time they come, that they may lay hold on the life which is life. Indeed. Another result that comes is that God is glorified. Thank you 516 Even so, let your light shine before men, that they may see your good works and glorify your father who's in heaven. What a great God we have usually answer to all our needs. Or wrote in Philippians four, I can do all things in him. The strength is me. He gives us joy and peace. Far more than what riches of the world can supply to us. Philippians four, rejoice, Lord always that again I will say rejoice. Let your forbearance be known unto all men. The Lord is at hand in nothing be anxious. Burn everything by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving let your requests be made known to God and the peace of God which passes all understanding to guard your hearts and your thoughts in Christ Jesus. And finally can save our souls from hell. Second TV one night in TN speaks with him who saved us and called us with the holy calling. Now they're going to our works with but according to his own purpose and grace, which was given us in Christ Jesus before times eternal, but has now been manifested by the appearing of our Savior Christ Jesus, who abolished death and brought life and immortality to light through The Gospel and what else is there? What else is there? So we thank Ruth and Sandra for teaching us a lesson and we thank Jesus for all that he has done for us and continues to do for us do we remembered day by day to thank him for what he has done. My Niger men have your spiritual needs been met? The need for forgiveness and salvation. If you need to respond the Lord's invitation Jesus said he believes in a baton shall be saved. If there's any way that you can be brought closer to Christ, and doing His will, making yourself right where God is you need to come forward we invite you to come and we stand together as we sing are your boy


Transcribed by https://otter.ai