Conrad Harkrider  00:01
Good morning. You want to open your Bibles up to the Gospel of Mark Mark chapter one. Appreciate the songs that JT led for us, and also some of the comments that he made before each of the songs. It's a great opportunity to be together on the first day of the week. If you're visiting with us, we're glad that you've come to worship together this morning and pardon our our mess here in the back. We're just a few weeks away, hopefully from finishing up with construction, and looking forward to all being back together again. If you look at statistics on world religions, the most widely practiced faith in the world today is Christianity about 31% of the world's population. The second most common practice of faith is Islam. about 1.9 billion adherence are Muslims today, that's one and out of every four people. Islam was founded by the Arab leader Mohammed about 600 years after that time when Jesus lived. But there are a number of differences between Christianity and Islam. The book that the that the Muslims follow the Quran, and the teachings that Christians follow that are found in the New Testament are vastly different. And one of the differences that really stands out as you read through the New Testament is this idea or this concept of miracles. In the Quran, there are no recorded miracles. Muslims believe that the writing of the Quran was itself a miracle, the actual book, but there's no supernatural signs or wonders described or attributed in the book, to the founder of Islam, Mohammed now years after he lived, Muslims have ascribed or attributed things to him in the in the years in the centuries that have followed, but during his lifetime, when the book was written, there was nothing said about those events. In the New Testament, we find that there are nearly 40 miracles that are described in the Gospel accounts. Some of those are mentioned in the synoptics and Matthew, Mark, and Luke, others are only mentioned in the Gospel of John. But these were supernatural events. They were seen by eyewitnesses. And then they were recorded, so that we could have confidence and assurance for generations to come. That our faith is grounded and based upon things that are real. So I'd like for us to look at some of the miracles of Jesus this morning and focus on this idea that not all miracles are the same. Not all miracles are the same Luke with me and Mark chapter one beginning in verse 21. Mark one, verse 21, it says, Then they came into Capernaum. And immediately on the Sabbath, He entered the synagogue and taught, and they were astonished at his teaching, for he taught them as one having authority and not as the scribes. Now there was a man in a synagogue with an unclean spirit, and he cried out, saying, Let us alone, what have we to do with you, Jesus of Nazareth? Did you come to destroy us? I know who you are the Holy One of God. Then Jesus rebuked him saying, Be quiet and come out of him. And when the unclean spirit had convulsed him and cried out with a loud voice, he came out of him. Then they were all amazed so that they questioned among themselves saying, What is this? What new doctrine is this? For with authority, he commands even the unclean spirits, and they obey Him. And immediately his fame spread throughout all the region around Galilee. When you look at the Gospel accounts and read about the miracles that were performed by Jesus, one of the things that stands out is that they were not all the same. The types of situations The types of people that came to Jesus were different. And I think there's some important lessons that we can learn about the ministry of Jesus about his purpose in coming. When we look at those differences, we're going to be looking just in the Gospel of Mark, Mark is the shortest of all the gospels that was written. But it places a great deal of emphasis on miracles, there are 20, recorded miracles in the Gospel of Mark, and nearly 1/3 of the narrative involves or has some type of miracle that is included or described. Here in chapter one, you see, it's just rapid fire one after the other, he just lays these out. But we see, first of all, that one of the ways that Jesus would perform miracles is that he would speak the word, he would just say the word, and a person would be relieved of whatever they were distressed with no touching, no waving of the hands, no special oil that he had to pour on them, he would just open his mouth, and commanded, and this would be done. Here in Mark chapter one. While teaching in the synagogue, Jesus is confronted with this man who has been possessed by an unclean spirit, these spirits were had the ability to control a person against their will. And this demon comes up and when he sees Jesus, he recognize him, recognizes him, he starts to call out and address him by name. He says, I know who you are, you're the Holy One of God. And in verse 25, he says, but Jesus rebuked him saying, Be quiet and come out of him. And then the unclean spirit had convulsed him and cried out with a loud voice, and he came out of him. Just by speaking the Word. This unclean spirit departs. We know from other passages that these spirits were incredibly strong, and at times very violent. In March chapter five, he describes a man who lived among the tombs, and he was so powerful that not even chains and shackles could control him. But Jesus doesn't back down or hesitate in this moment, he firmly says, Be quiet, and come out of him. And notice the reaction from the crowd in verse 27. It says that they were all amazed, so that they question among themselves, saying, What is this? What is this new doctrine, they were astounded, they were amazed, because they had just witnessed something incredible, something that an ordinary person could not do. Well, why would Jesus just speak a word? Why not use some type of object to accomplish this miracle? Think about Moses and Aaron, they Moses had the staff that he presented before Pharaoh, he touched the staff to the Red Sea, and to the rock to make those things do something amazing. But instead, Jesus just says the word there are other examples from Mark of Jesus doing amazing things with just a word and Mark chapter four and verse 39. When Jesus is out on the boat with His disciples, He is there and the storm is coming. And it says, In Mark four and 39, he awoke and rebuked the wind and said to the sea, Peace, be still and the wind cease and there was a great calm. In March chapter five and verse 13, Jesus casts out demons from this man who was possessed by a legion of demons. And it says, Mark five and verse 12, and they begged him saying, send us to the pigs, let us enter them, so he gave them permission. And Mark seven in verse 30, a Canaanite woman comes to Jesus and she's imploring him on behalf of her daughter, her daughter, who is not even present. Jesus, His word was able to heal people even at a distance. And then in March chapter nine and verse 25, there is a boy with an unclean spirits. And it says, and Mark 925 When Jesus caught saw that the crowd came running together, he rebuked the unclean spirits saying to it, you mute and deaf spirit I command you come out of him and never enter him. Again. Just speaking the Word and Jesus's will was accomplished. The other night, we were having dinner and one of the kids got their plate and they realized that they didn't have any utensils. And so he looked around for a second. And then he said, get me a fork. And I looked at my wife, and we pause for a few seconds. And no one did anything. And so he said it louder, get me a fork. And it was amazing. Still, no one jumped up from the table. And why is that? Why was no one reacting to his word of what he was saying? Well, for one thing, that's not how you ask for something, you need to say it more politely, can you please get me a fork or better yet get up and give one yourself. But the point is, chill, children can say something. But they don't have the rights or the authority to demand it from us. Those words can come out of their mouth, but it doesn't carry any weight. But with Jesus, the reason that he cast out these demons with a word, the reason that he called a raging sea, with a simple statement from his mouth, was because it shows his authority. You see this in March chapter one. What was he doing on the Sabbath day when he's teaching in the synagogue, verse 21, says that he was teaching verse 22, says that they were astonished by these things. And then verse 27, puts all this together. The reason that they were amazed was not just because he had some good things to say, or because he was really talented at breaking down the Old Testament scriptures. But the reason they were impressed was because he spoke with authority. He was teaching as one who had authority Jesus gave his disciples and the people who saw these miracles, He gave them a glimpse into who he really was, he gave them insight into his true character. And even for us today, when we read these accounts, it gives us perspective about who Jesus is, what is his position? What is his role in relationship to each one of us? Think about it this way, if the word of Christ is powerful enough to cast out a violent and strong, evil spirits. If the word of Christ is powerful enough to call them a raging sea, then doesn't he have the right and authority to tell you in me how we should live our lives. The reason that we submit to Christ is because we see that when He was on earth, he displayed this power, this incredible authority. And we come to realize that he is the king over all the earth. And here's another truth that when we die, each one of us is going to stand before Him and be judged for the things that we've done. So while we have opportunity, our response our reaction to Jesus should be Lord, what do you want me to do? What have you told me? What have you asked me to do? Where do you want me to go? Because ultimately, his path is the only one that leads to true life, and fulfillment. Jesus spoke these words and it showed his great authority. We also see that Jesus used his hands. Look at Mark chapter one and verse 40. In Mark chapter one and verse 40, it says, now a leper came to Him, imploring Him, kneeling down to Him and saying, if you are willing, you can make me clean. Then Jesus, moved with compassion, stretched out his hand and touched him and said, I am willing, be cleansed. As soon as he hits. As soon as he had spoken, immediately, the leprosy left him and he was cleansed. Mark says in verse 40, that there is a leper that has come to Jesus leprosy was a terrible disease. It was debilitating. It was physically painful. It caused sores to break out on a person's skin. But there was also a social aspect to this a stigma that was associated with this disease. People who were lepers were not allowed to come into the camp. They were excluded from the congregation, they were considered unclean. And they were forced to be isolated from the community with the recent COVID 19 outbreak we've all become familiar with this idea of quarantine, someone who has tested positive has to go away for a period of time. Usually it's some period of 10 to 14 days they have to go into isolation. They can't be around others until their symptoms start to subside. But can you imagine if you had a condition that resulted in perpetual, never ending quarantine. In severe cases, these levers would have been completely cut off from the assembly. And so you can imagine the the desperation, the eagerness that this man would have felt as he comes before Jesus trying to receive some type of help. In verse 40, it says that he knelt down he falls to his knees, begging Jesus to help him. He falls before Jesus, I wonder if we approach the Lord with that same attitude, that same sense of desire and need and reverence? Do we view our sin? Although it's not, although it may not be visible to others, but do we see it as something that is painful, like an open sore on our skin? And when we realize that we have a need for Jesus do we come to Him, imploring Him pleading with him falling down before him asking for his healing and his forgiveness? This man, his heart was wide open. He didn't come expecting Jesus to do something for him or demanding that Jesus give him something. God doesn't owe us anything, but he's looking for those who recognize their need, and are willing to bow down and come before him. Notice what the leper says he says, if you will, if you are willing, if you want to do this, then you are able This is a great statement of faith and belief on the part of the leper. He realizes that Jesus can help him in verse 41, it says that Jesus was moved with compassion, he felt sorry for this man. And he reaches out and touches him. He places his hands on a man who is covered with leprosy by touching someone with leprosy. It would cause a person to become defiled. But instead of becoming unclean, Jesus transfers his own purity and wholeness to this man, he heals him both physically and spiritually. Jesus says, I am willing, be clean. Well, there are other examples of Jesus touching someone and blessing them with some miraculous gift in March chapter five and verse 41. It says that he took the daughter of Joris by the hand and raised her up. In Mark chapter seven in verse 33, the deaf man is healed. It says that Jesus took his fingers and placed them into his ears. And then in March chapter eight and verse 25, the blind man at Bethsaida, it says that he laid his hands on his eyes. Why does Jesus touch these people? Why did he feel compelled to put his hands on them? I think this shows us that the miracles of Jesus were very personal in nature. You think about using some of your saliva and putting it on another person's eyes. That is a very intimate personal interaction that's going on there. But Jesus was focused on helping individual people. Even though throughout his ministry, he became incredibly popular. There were large crowds that were drawn to him, he still dealt with people on a one on one basis. He addressed their specific needs. He focused on the particular problems that they were facing. And because the miracles of Jesus were so personal, they were inherently rare. Not everyone who was blind during the time of Jesus received their sights. Not every leper was cleansed from his disease if Jesus wanted to he could have spoken the word and in an instant healed everything same person that was on the earth. But instead, these people came to Jesus. They left their homes and their villages, they had to travel, oftentimes, miles and miles, and they came before him to receive this blessing. Jesus was moved with compassion, and he would heal them. You think about this scene, it's the Son of God, the Creator of the Universe. He's bending over, he's stooping down to place his hands on the creation, so that he can heal them. What we see is that we serve a God, we serve a Lord who cares about people. He cares about our problems, even though he isn't walking around healing people today, he still has that same love and concern for each one of us. He cares about our struggles, our pain, our hurts. And ultimately, he is the only one that can provide us with true spiritual healing, a gift that is far greater than any physical blessing that might have been offered to these people. Jesus's miracles were very personal. In nature. We also see that Jesus, at times would give instructions, Jesus would tell a person to do something and then based upon their obedience, and following what he had said, or their response, they would receive healing. Mr. chapter three and verse six, Jesus went into the sat in the synagogue on a Sabbath, and his enemies were watching him. They wanted to see if there was something that they could accuse him of that they could trap him and use it against him. And in that day, there was a man there who had a withered hand. But notice what Jesus what it says in March chapter three and verse five. And when he had looked around at them with anger, being grieved by the hardness of their hearts, He said to the man stretch out your hand, and he stretched it out, and his hand was restored as whole, as the other. The text says that Jesus was so frustrated by the hardness of heart, he was angered at their unwillingness to acknowledge the power of God, they had seen these things, and then also their focus on just trying to trap him. These leaders didn't care about people, they were only interested in their own position and status. And so Jesus tells this man, to stretch out his hand. And when he does, it is completely restored. These leaders are trying to get Jesus in trouble. And they're saying that it's wrong to perform a miracle on the Sabbath. And so what Jesus does here is very interesting. He tells the man to stretch out his hand stretching out one's hand was not breaking the Sabbath, asking someone to stretch out their hand, was not breaking the Sabbath. And so Jesus completely embarrassed his his critics, without saying anything like your hand be healed or touching him. This man just stretches out his hand, and he's healed. Other examples of Jesus giving instruction in March chapter six and verse 39, when Jesus feeds the 5000, he tells the crowd to sit down, and then he instructs his disciples to take the food, the five loaves and two fish and to distribute it to the people. But what we see from these miracles with Jesus telling someone to do something, is that the miracles of Jesus point to something greater. The purpose of the miracles was not just to heal a person's hand, or to feed people who were hungry. Of course, those things would have had a tremendous impact on this, this person, this man's hand is now restored, think about his ability to work and to earn a living for himself. But there was more to it than just helping this one person. There was a greater lesson that was intended to be understood. One afternoon, I took the kids to the dollar store so that they can pick something out for themselves. But this particular trip was a little bit different because I wasn't going to be paying they were using their own money. So they had to think about which items they could get and not to overspend and make sure that they had enough. And so we got up to the counter, they started counting out their coins so that they could pay for their toys. After a few moments, I look behind me there's about 10 or 15 people queuing up behind us waiting for us to go through. But what was the point? Why? Why did I make them pay for the items? Did I not have enough money? Well, of course not. But we're trying to teach them a lesson trying to teach them how to use money. And more importantly, than an hour trying to teach them how to make decisions, how to be responsible for themselves. Jesus wasn't just focused on helping people get better physically, and making sure that they were well fed. For every immediate benefit that was supplied from the miracle, there was also an intended spiritual benefit. These miracles were designed to produce faith within people. And by extension, those who are reading these accounts, it would also produce produce faith. For those who read them today. Jesus doesn't want us just to see what he did and be amazed or impressed. He wants us to trust Him, to follow Him, to submit our lives. To him. Miracles were blessings or gifts from God, and really every blessing or gift that we have from the Lord. Anything that God gives us today is intended for a greater purpose. You think about your job the Lord has blessed you with the ability to make a paycheck, that's great. You can buy things for yourself, you can provide for your needs. But there's something more important there is something greater, that the Lord is intending to come from that blessing of us receiving a paycheck. The Lord wants us to open our eyes, to use those blessings, in a greater sense to help other people to contribute to God's work. To bless those around us. The Lord wants us to open our eyes and see the bigger picture. And so it was with miracles, they had a longer term design or they were designed. They were supposed to impact people in a greater way. And so it is with our blessings. Today, God wants us to see these things from his perspective. Finally, one more example of the methods that Jesus used for healing was that when people touched his clothes, look at Mark chapter six, and verse 56. There's a statement that is made about this Mark chapter six, and verse 56. It says, Wherever he entered into villages, cities or the country, they laid the sick in the marketplaces and begged him that they might just touch the hem of His garment. And as many as touched him, were made well, people were brought out of their houses on their beds, can you imagine the types of crowds that would have been coming to Jesus, if you've ever been to a concert, and you've tried to push your way up to the front so you can get a better view of your favorite artist. But these people are not just wanting to be entertained, they are, they've been waiting, they have been longing for some type of relief from their various diseases. And the text says that they would come and if they could just touch the fringe the tip of his garments, then they would be healed. In March chapter five and verse 25. There's another account of a woman who was in a crowd of people she had suffered with a discharge of blood for 12 years. And she had gone to a number of doctors and physicians and instead of getting better, the problem only grew worse. And so one day she was able to get close enough to Jesus and she said to herself, if I can just touch the edge of his garment than I can be healed. And when she came up and put her hand on the fringe of his of his garment immediately, she realized that she had been made well. When Jesus would heal in this way, it would show his incredible power. Mark six and verse 56, says that as many as touched him, were made well I don't know how many that includes, perhaps there were hundreds, if not 1000s of people that thronged around Jesus when he would go into these towns in these cities, in order to touch the hem of His garment. But no doubt there was just power that was flowing out of him. And what we can learn about this is, there are actually some people today who claim to be able to perform miracles. Maybe they lay their hands on someone, they pray for them, perhaps they pour some type of special holy water on them. And they will claim that some issue is now been relieved. And usually it's an internal problem, a stomach issue or a back ailments. But there is nothing that even comes close to the power that was displayed in Jesus Christ, being able to walk down the street, complete strangers coming up, touching his garment, and receiving this healing. And so the question we have to ask ourselves, we see this one was such tremendous power, we think about our lives today. The question is, where are we putting our trust? Where are we putting our hope? Where are we fixing? Our eyes? Is our hope is our trust is it built on financial stability, we put our trust in our, our physical assets, is our hope is our trust placed in science in our own health and our ability to take care of ourselves is our hope or trust, put in some person, some teacher, some group of people, that's where we find our sense of security, or is our hope and our trust placed, and the only one who has ever walked this world who displayed such incredible power. After three days in the tomb in the greatest display of power that the world has ever seen, Jesus rose from the dead. He conquered death, he became the first born from the dead and now he invites all people to Himself, so that we can receive that same blessing. At the end of time, those who trust in the Lord will be raised up and will receive eternal life. If you're not a Christian. We want to encourage you to think about your relationship with God this morning, that there's something that we can do to help you with that or to talk to you in more depth about coming to Christ becoming one of his children, then we certainly would love that opportunity, but there's something we can do to help you or encourage you in your walk with the Lord. Please come down to the front as we stand and sing the song


Transcribed by https://otter.ai