Some of us wanted to just keep going on that one. It's great to be with you this morning, thank you so much for coming to worship and praise our great God, if you want to be opening your Bibles up to the book of Acts, that's what we're going to be starting from this morning Acts chapter two. One of the family activities that we've started doing with our kids is jigsaw puzzles. And we started out with some easier ones that could be done in one sitting. But over time, we've moved to some more challenging sets, ones that have four to 500 pieces. And some of those will have to sit out for several days or even a week. And we've gone over all the different tactics and strategies. With the kids, you look for the edge or side pieces first. And then you put all of the different colors into piles, the greens here, the reds, the blues, and you separate those out. And then you want to keep a picture of the finished product in front of you, you want to be able to see what it is you're working on. There was one afternoon that little brother decided that he wanted to help. And he ran in there. And he grabbed a couple of handfuls of loose pieces and took them back to his lair. And one of the one of the kids saw that, and she looked at the puzzle and said, Now we'll never finish. And she said, I am so frustrated. And she was right. You ever feel frustrated. You ever feel like the pieces are out of place. Like they're not fitting together as they're supposed to. Things keep getting mixed around. You know, just because we have faith in Christ doesn't mean that we don't face difficulties. It doesn't mean that we are immune or exempt from things that may challenge us. We have the same worries, the same struggles, the same concerns as those around us and we experience grief, loss, and heartbreak. But as children of God, our perspective on those things is, is different. We have a different view of what's happening in this world because of our connection to Christ. And this morning, I want us to think about this key attribute that is so important in the life of every believer, and that is our joy in Christ. And what I'd like to do is just look at the book of Acts, and see the references that are made to this idea of rejoicing, of joy of gladness that we find in the early believers. So let's start in Acts chapter two, beginning in verse 42x, two and verse 42. It says, And they continued steadfastly in the apostles doctrine, and fellowship, in the breaking of bread and prayer and in prayers. Then fear came upon every soul, and many wonders and signs were done through the apostles, now all who believed were together and had all things in common, and sold their possessions and goods and divided them among all as anyone had need. So continuing daily with one accord in the temple, and breaking bread from house to house, they ate their food with gladness and simplicity of heart, Praising God and having favor with all the people. And the Lord added to the church daily, those who were being saved. These verses describe the beginnings of the early church and there was this incredible community that had formed, we see that they had joy in receiving the word in verse 42. It says that they were devoting themselves to the apostles teaching, that they had all things in common that they were sharing with In one another, they were selling things and distributing those to anyone who might have need. And did you notice the spirit or the heart that was among them in verse 46? It says that they were receiving their food with glad and generous hearts. This phrase breaking of bread and verse 46. There's a question about whether that is referring to the Lord's supper or just a common meal, I think I tend to think it's the latter. But regardless, the the spirit in which they were doing this, they had gladness, they had joy, there was this generous and giving heart that was among them. What's amazing about x two is that this is a total transformation. These are the same people who were listening to Peter sermon on the day of Pentecost. And in verse 36, Peter says that they were responsible for the death of the Son of God. In verse 37, these are the ones who were cut to the heart. They felt remorse. They were convicted because of what they had done because they had rejected God's Messiah and demanded that he be crucified. But now after accepting God's promises, and hearing the words that had been spoken by Peter, and the assault, and the apostles, it says that they are filled with joy. They are filled with this great joy. That word gladness is significant. The same root word is used in Luke chapter one and verse 14, when the angel comes to Zachariah, and tells him that his wife is going to have a child in her old age. And in Luke chapter one and verse 14, it says, and you will have joy and gladness, and many will rejoice at his birth. This gladness or joy is not an independent feeling here it is the result of something that God has done. It is in response to God's saving acts. So God acts God does something. And then that produces or results in joy, or rejoicing in the heart of the disciples, when we when we receive what God has freely given to us, that that produces great joy. We see this again and again in the book of Acts and Acts chapter eight, after hearing what Philip said about the prophecies from Isaiah 53. The unic asked Philip the question What prevents me from being baptized? And in Acts chapter eight and verse 39, it says, And when they came up out of the water, the Spirit of the Lord carried Philip away, and the Unix saw him no more and went on his way, rejoicing. It's interesting that what we're told in this verse is that the UNIQ no longer saw the man who had just taught him about the gospel, he is now separated or apart from this one who has blessed him so greatly and yet what is his reaction or his response, it says that he was rejoicing. We see this again in Acts chapter 13, in verse 48. It says that when the Gentiles heard this, they began rejoicing and glorifying the word of the Lord. And as many as were appointed to eternal life believed. And the word of the Lord was spreading throughout the whole region, and the disciples were filled with joy and with the Holy Spirit. Here in Acts 13, Paul and Barnabas go to Antioch. And they are preaching the word in the synagogue as they often would do to the Jews. But when the Jews reject their words, they decide instead to turn their attention to the Gentiles. And it says that the Gentiles rejoice. They glorify God at the opportunity to receive this message. And in verse 53, as this word begins to spread throughout the whole region, it says that they were filled with joy. So again, and again, the response is the same when people hear the good news about Jesus Christ. When they accept that truth. They are filled with this gladness, and joy. And it's just a reminder to us that becoming a Christian being in connection with Christ completely changes your life for the better. We have this joy, we have this peace, this satisfaction that comes over us and knowing that we are now a child of God. After Philip left the unit, the unit didn't have any more money. The unit had not received a promotion. In his job, the unit hadn't lost any amount of weight. He didn't look any different physically. And yet his heart was full of joy. These Gentiles in Acts 13, they realize that they have been verse 48, appointed to eternal life. They have been granted the blessing of eternal life, is there anything as valuable or as important as receiving the gift of eternal life. When I was a senior in college, I asked my girlfriend at the time now wife if she wanted to marry me, and thankfully she said yes. And I remember after we got engaged, that I was still finishing up my last year of school, and there was a test that I took that I didn't do so well on. And after I got the grade back, I was looking at it. And I thought, You know what, that doesn't matter because I'm getting married in a couple of months. And I go and watch my sports team play, and they would lose a really close game. And I'd feel disappointed for a moment. But then I'd say you know what, I'm still getting married this summer. And I get a parking ticket on campus. And I look at that $75 Fine. And I think I don't have to pay this. I'm getting married in a couple of months. All of the things that once frustrated me. All the things that weighed on me, they now seemed so small in comparison to this great blessing that I was about to receive. The joy that a Christian feels is so much deeper than anything we could experience. In this world. It doesn't mean that we don't feel sorrow. It doesn't mean that we are absent of grief, or sadness. But as Paul said in First Thessalonians chapter four and verse 13, we don't grieve as those who have no hope. But instead, we remember this blessing, this treasure that can never be taken away from us. There's so many people in the world today that want to find joy, that are seeking for joy. But they're looking in all of the wrong places, they try to find it in their job, they look for it in a relationship, they seek after it in their possessions. All of these things only offer temporary short term happiness and pleasure they can never provide what we see here in the book of Acts as these people receive the Word of God and they find this true and lasting joy in Christ. We also see that there is joy in Christ. When we see the faith of others in Acts chapter 11 And verse 21, turn with me there X 11 In verse 21. It says, And the hand of the Lord was with them, and a great number believed and turned to the Lord. Then the news of these things came to the ears of the church in Jerusalem, and they sent out Barnabas to go as far as Antioch. And when he came and had seen the grace of God, he was glad and encouraged them all with purpose of heart, that they should continue with the Lord. Here Barnabas travels over to Antioch and he's wanting to see the people who have come to the Lord. And verse 23 says that when he encounters these brothers, he is glad the New American Standard translates that word glad as rejoiced. Barnabas is filled with joy, because he sees other people accepting the gospel. He sees the grace of God being extended to these ones who were previously walking in darkness and that realization that understanding causes him to be filled with great joy, also in Acts chapter 15, in verse three, it says so being sent on their way by the church, they pass through both Phoenicians and Mariya describing in detail the conversion of the Gentiles, and brought great joy to all the brothers. Here, Paul and Barnabas are heading to Jerusalem to me with the church and the elders there and on their way, the texts tells us that they are relating to those that they come in contact with in these various places about the Gentiles how they have turned to the Lord. And notice the reaction of the Christians. It brought great joy to all the brothers. These people are hearing stories about others receiving the word they don't even know presumably know these people. But yet, they were filled with such great joy at the news of another receiving God's grace. Back in the summer, we were visiting some friends of an Indiana and we went to service was with them on Sunday morning. And there was an older woman she was probably about in her 70s That was there that morning. And she was there by herself. And at the end of the service, she came down to the front and she told the congregation there that she wanted to be baptized. And they got her ready. And she went up into the baptistry. And she went down into the water. When she came back up. One of the kids leaned over and whispered their singing. And I didn't really understand what she was talking about. And I asked her to repeat it. She said, The angels are singing. And that's exactly right. That story didn't make the local news. In that town. There was no mention of it. In the paper. What happened that Sunday morning, but angelic beings around the throne of Almighty God were singing praises because of a decision that an old woman made that Sunday morning. When others come to the Lord, our reaction on earth should mere what is occurring in heaven. And it makes us think about what is it that gets us excited? What is it that makes us smile? What is it that we would be so overwhelmed with that we would tell someone else about it. I just got a new car, I'm building a new house, look at my new phone are the things that we value that we think about that we share about with other people? Are they just the physical things of this world. So often, I need to reframe my mind and my thinking and to put emphasis on what God sees as important that the saving of a soul that that is something that would produce great joy in my heart. And when I feel that way, I'll put emphasis on teaching and preaching and helping other people come to know the Lord. When someone confesses their faith or becomes a Christian, then I'll, I'll find ways to encourage that person. I'll send them a note I'll check up on them. Those who are new in their faith need lots of watering in the early years. And so that's what we see in the life of Barnabas Barnabas was not just happy to He wasn't just happy that people were joining the church, and that the numbers were growing, but he took an active part in that process. It says that the verse that we just read, it says that he encouraged others in the Lord. He was finding ways to strengthen to help to build up new Christians. And so it as we should have that same attitude, desire, all of us can play a part in helping to strengthen and build up the body of Christ. And that's what we see in the early church. They took great joy in developing and helping others to grow in their faith. We also see that there was joy, that the joy of Christ was present even during times when they were facing persecution. Look with me in Acts chapter five in verse 41. Acts chapter five and verse 41. As Peter and the apostles are standing before the Sanhedrin they give their defense in Acts chapter five and verse 41. It says so They've departed from the presence of the council rejoicing that they were counted worthy to suffer shame for his name. They have been brought in, they've been questioned about the things that they're preaching, and teaching and after Gamaliel stands up, and he says, Don't bother with these men just leave them alone. They send them on their way with a parting gift, they beat them. They have them physically punished for the things that they have been doing. And it says that the reaction from the disciples when they leave is that they rejoice. Their response to being punished in this way is to offer a praise and rejoicing How can this be in the midst of persecution, physical harm for someone to offer up praise, and Thanksgiving, we see an another. We see another example of this in Acts chapter 16. In verse 25, when Paul and Silas have been arrested and thrown into the prison at Philippi, it says about midnight, Paul and Silas were praying and singing hymns to God and the prisoners. Were listening to them. Paul and Silas find themselves in this dark, and this dirty Roman prison, they've been beaten before this. And now their feet have been placed into stocks there. They're confined, they can't move about. There's no indication that they know how long they're going to be there if they're going to be released or what's going to happen to them. And yet, they're singing hymns. They're praising God in the middle of the night, and those who are around them, are listening to them. Paul and Silas and the other disciples understood that, in this suffering, they were becoming like the Lord. They were being transformed to be like, Jesus, in the Sermon on the Mount, Jesus said, Blessed are you when they revile you and persecute you and say all kinds of evil against you, falsely for my sake for this is what they did to the prophets, who were before you. And these disciples, they understood that in suffering, they were becoming more like their Lord. To have the heart of Christ means that we love others. But to have the heart of Christ means that we love those who do good to us, as well as those who would harm us. To have the heart of Christ means that we live with joy. But to have the heart of Christ means that we live with joy, both in times of prosperity, and times of adversity. And Acts chapter seven, as Steven is giving his defense. Men are picking up stones to throw at him and to take his life. And he utters the words, Lord, do not hold this against them. That type of faith, that type of conviction. That type of trust in God can only be found if we have a deep rooted faith in our Lord. What happens to a boat that's not anchored or tied down, the wind starts to push against it, the current is pulling it away from the shore farther and farther out into the water, it's completely subject to the environment, to the circumstances that are around it, the conditions that it finds itself in. So it is when we base our feelings of joy and contentment on our life on what's happening to us. We are sure to find ourselves on this roller coaster of emotions, going up and down, constantly being tossed about by whatever life throws at us. Possessions assets go up and down and value relationships start and then they end. But joy in Christ goes deeper than the surface. A true joy is not based upon what's happening right now in this instant. But instead it's grounded in our faith in Christ, which is why Paul could say in any and every circumstance, I have learned how to live in plenty and in need abundance, and hunger. Our faith is that anchor allows us to see beyond the current struggles and to know that the Lord will deliver us. And also notice that joy in the face of persecution has tremendous impact. In this verse in Acts 16 And verse 25, it says that the prisoners were listening to them. The people that were around Paul and Silas that saw their response to what was happening to them, they are seeing this. They are listening and watching and being impacted by this godly example. And Acts chapter 26, or Acts chapter 16, verse 26, it says that there was an earthquake and all of the doors of the prison were opened up. And it was at that moment that God was able to use these men. He was able to use what was happening to them the fact that they had been arrested and taken to this prison. And now they're in this terrible situation, but he uses it for his good. And that's our final point this morning. That our joy in Christ is something that the early Christians were sharing with others. They were taking this joy and they were sending it out. They were helping others to share in that same joy that they had found. The jailer, the one who was holding them prisoner comes running in. And he asked Paul and Silas, what he needs to do to be saved. And you see Paul and Silas don't hold a grudge against him. They don't say, Well, look how you were treating us earlier. Now the tables have turned or they don't try to get back at him for any of the wrongs committed. But instead, they wanted to share what they had with him. Acts chapter 16. And verse 34, says, then he brought them the jailer brought them up into his house and set food before them and he rejoiced along with his entire household that he had believed in God. Notice his response to receive receiving the word the jailer rejoices. And it's not just him that is rejoicing, but he invites his entire household to hear the message. It's possible that his house was connected to the jail in the same complex so his family was close by. But this was not something that he kept to himself. He wanted to share what he had what he had just discovered and found he wanted to tell the people who were closest to him about that it says that he rejoiced along with his entire household, they all rejoiced at receiving this word. But it was one, it was something that he brought them in on what he was experiencing. Paul made a similar statement in Acts chapter 26, when he's standing before a grip, and he says that I would want you I would want to God that you would become as I am, except for these chains. I think Paul is saying, I want you Agrippa and all the people who are here to have what I have to have the same hope, the same peace, the same joy that I've found. And so thinking about what we have received this incredible joy. You know, when we get some type of good news when we pass the test, when we get the promotion when we finally close on the house, we are calling our family, we're texting our friends, we might put something out on social media to show everyone. This is what I've finished, I've obtained my goal. The blessings that we have in Christ are not meant just to be held back and only enjoyed by ourselves. And if we're living with this constant joy in our hearts, that's going to be something that radiates out of us that other people will see that. They'll know that we're different that the Lord has blessed us. And that'll be something that we want to share and give to other people. Philip told Nathaniel, come to the one that Moses and the prophets spoke of come and see the one who has been foretold in the Old Testament. And Nathaniel's response was Can anything good come out of Nazareth? And Phil didn't try it. argue with him on that point and offer up more explanations. He just said, Come and see. Come and see for yourself. That's what we're inviting friends and neighbors and those in our community to do to come and taste the joy and the peace that we have found in Jesus Christ. We're going to close this morning with an invitation song. It's an opportunity to respond to the gospel call. If you're here this morning and you're not a Christian, you can become one. By submitting yourself to the to the word of Jesus Christ and being baptized you can be forgiven of your sins, and have that true joy and peace and fulfillment that's found only in Christ. If there's something that we can do to encourage or help you this morning, please come down to the front as we stand and sing


Transcribed by https://otter.ai