Good morning. It's good to see everyone here today. Certainly good that we can come here and worship God, we had a profitable class and don't class I trust. We had good classes in the back as well. And so it's just been good to be here. And so I'm so glad to be able to worship with you today. I wrote about a figure recently, I'm going to ask you a question just because I'm curious if you've heard of this man before or not. Have you heard of a Roman general and statesman named sola? Ratio your hand if you've heard of him? I hadn't heard of him either. And we normally hear about those first century and beyond. But this was the first century BC so he was a Roman general and statesman that preceded actually Julius Caesar. So he was in the early part of the first century, and he was most known for actually have a picture here as a handsome guy. He was most known for winning the major scale civil war in Rome. And by taking power by force, now he set a precedent of Rome, you know, Julius Caesar, and some of those other Caesars that live they would take power by force, but this was the first man to do that. His name was Lucia, Cornelius Sala. And he added Felix which means good fortune, at the end of that, if you'd like to know his full name. He rose to prominence in the war against Numidia in the war against Numidia. And he was very prominent in that war and winning that war. But his superior Maurice took credit for ending the war. And that created a conflict between Sora, sola and moreas that would last for many years. In fact, they would become leaders of competing military political factions, that would face off against one another. On one occasion, Solo was awarded the supreme command as he was going to fight another war, but through intrigue, Maurice, his rival, caused that that that general ship that appointment to be taken away. Well, not to be outdone, he marched on Rome and said that yes, I am going to be general on this. And so he took power there. When he went off to fight that war. He marched on Rome when he came back victorious a second time, and he was named dictator of Rome. He used this power to purge his opponents and to restore the primacy of the Senate, which was what his political party fought for. He retired from public life and 79 BC, which many people find to be very mysterious because this man that grabs power, then actually retires and steps down. He writes his memoirs for a year before he dies in 78 BC. Needless to say, in his life as a military commander in dictator of Rome, he devolved many friends, and many enemies, many friends and many enemies. And he is attributed with the following statement. No friend ever served me and no enemy ever wronged me, whom I have not repaid in full. Many people see that statement is really the height of of honor. He was not a debtor to anyone. He did what he was supposed to do. If someone was kind to him, he was kind back and if someone was evil to him or an enemy to him, then he paid them back. And he had a lot of that in his career. But when we look in Romans, we see a different message, then pay back to what others do to you. It's a very different message. In fact, I'd like to look at the subject of overcoming evil with good from Romans 12, verses 17 through 21. overcome evil with good and in particular, this, this passage deals with retaliation, and what should Christians be paying back to others? So let's notice this passage, if you will, and Romans 12 and starting in verse 17. Repay no one evil for evil, but give thought to do what is honorable in the sight of all, if possible, so far as it depends on you live peaceably with all. Beloved, never avenge yourselves, but leave it to the wrath of God for it is written, Vengeance is mine. I will repay, says the Lord. To the contrary If your enemy is hungry, feed him feels thirsty, give him something to drink. For by so doing you will heap coals on his head. Do not be overcome by evil, but overcome evil with good. This passage has a message for us today doesn't it may have been written nearly 2000 years ago, but it's just as applicable for us. As Christians, we are not to pay back evil for evil. We're not to retaliate, we're not to return and continue the cycle of harm and sin. But we are to take a higher road, a higher road that was demonstrated first by Jesus Christ, and continued on as an example for all Christians. So let's notice some lessons from from this passage. First of all, in verse 17, there is an instruction here not to do something. Never pay back evil for evil, never return harm to someone simply because they harm you. Just because they insult you or do something bad to you, you're not to return that back, and con. When someone does something to us, that is our natural inclination, isn't it? That is our natural impulse that we will immediately return that back. And we learned that if learn is the right word, we have that in us from a very young age. What child has not had his toy taken away that he does not return a fist. We learned that from a very young age. I'm reminded of one of the Family Circus. That was a cartoon I read in the comics when I was growing up and one of the children grants of their parents and said, well home, Dolly hit me back. Dolly hit me back. That's the way we often act, isn't it? We understand retaliation happens. It's a part of life, but we don't like it when it does. Well, it's not only something we see in children, but it's something we see in adults as well. You may have heard of something called a culture of honor. A lot of movies and shows are based upon this idea of a culture of honor, a culture of honor as a culture in which a person feels obliged to protect his or her reputation, by answering insults or fronts and threats, oftentimes through the use of violence. If you threaten me, then I will pay you back. And I will get you back. And there's different cultures that that highlight this idea of honor, you have insulted my honor, and I must make you pay. Some of the places we see that we see that in the lowlands of Scotland, Northern Ireland, and that came across the United States and to where it's a part of the American South, My honor is at stake. We find that in Appalachian, where laws are not as forthcoming people become a law to themselves and say I will make you pay. And we see that in inner city gangs. The last thing you want to do is making a front to my honor, because I will make you pay for reminds me of the attitude we see in Genesis four and verse 23. When lame egg boasted, I have killed a man for wounding me, a young man for striking me, you do the smallest thing to me and I will return to you tenfold. You get a scratch on me. And that's enough for me to take your life. A lot of people beat their chests and say, Look how great I am when I can do something like this. That is the way of the world. But Paul instructs Christians in Romans 12, to never pay back evil for evil. Christianity calls us past our base impulses to a higher standard. We're to be more than simply what we want to do. And the honor that we feel like we have, if we back up a few verses in Romans 12. We'll notice in verse 14, that our base impulse is to curse our persecutors. But Christianity calls us not to curse but to bless. Our impulse we see in verse 16, is to protect our honor and our pride. But Christianity calls us not to be haughty, or wise in our own sight. Our base impulse and verse 17 is to return evil for evil. If you do something to me, I'm going to do it back and maybe even more. I will make you sorry. that you messed with me. But Christianity says repay no one evil for evil, but give thought to do what is honorable in the sight of all? The second part of that phrase says we're to do what is right and honorable in all circumstances to all people at all times. We shouldn't need an excuse. Yeah, but they did this first. As a parent, you often hear that, don't you? Why did you do this? Well, they did it first. And sadly, that excuse doesn't leave our mentality. And many adults use the same reason and excuse they did it first. But our conduct is to be honorable in the sight of all. In first Peter three in verse nine it states do not repay evil for evil or reviling for reviling. But on the contrary, bless. For to this you have been called that you may obtain a blessing. We have been called as Christians to something better than retaliation to something bigger than our base impulses, we have been called into the very character of God. So the first thing I see in Romans 12 And verse 17, is never pay back evil for evil. First, 18 gives another instruction, and that is Be at peace with all men. Be at peace with all men, verse 18, reads, if possible, so far as it depends on you, live peaceably with all, the goal of a Christian is to be at peace. And notice that it says it is to be a peace with all people. It was very easy to be at peace with our friends, it's very easy to be at peace with those that are kind to us. But as Christians were to seek peace, not only with them, but everyone else, were to seek peace with all people. And again, we imitate the very character of our God who has loved all people. All people are created in the image of God. All people are those whom Jesus died on the cross for, and God desires all people to be saved. And as Christians, we are called to live peaceably with all people. And as soon as I say that, I recognize that that's not always easy. We live in a sin saturated world. We're not always living peaceably simply with those that are kind of nice. There are a lot of people that again, are our victims and perpetrators of sin so that they suffer. They suffer in the midst of sin. And sadly, they make a lot of other people suffer with them, and be difficult. But we are called to live peaceably with them, in the midst of a sinful world, be at peace with all men. But you'll notice there's a caveat in this passage, it does say, if possible, and so far as depends upon you. It may be again as we live in this sin saturated world, that others will not allow us to have peace seitan as lon allow peace in their lives, and they're not gonna allow anyone else to have peace, either. That's very possible. Some may pursue enmity, regardless of what we do. But the instruction in the passage reminds us that often we play a part in enmity with others. You got into that fight with your brother or sister and your mom and dad comes and says, Why did this happen? What are you doing say? Well, they and they give that that piece of advice so that that statement that you just hate to hear it takes to to argue to to argue, say no, but I'm innocent here. I'm completely innocence. In truth is often fights do take two parties don't they take someone continuing it on. And so we have to take to heart this instruction as far as depends upon us. And so we have to ask ourselves, Is there anything that I could do that will bring about peace? Instead of simply reacting in frustration, reacting to the harm that was done to us we say what could I do that would bring about peace? Because so far as depends upon me. I must be at peace with all people. Well, the instructions and the instructions continue in verse 19, verse 19, Paul says leave room for the wrath of God. third verse says, Beloved, never avenge yourselves, but leave it to the wrath of God. For his written VENGEANCE IS MINE, I WILL REPAY, says the Lord. And now we come to a truth that's hard to bear. And that is the fact that we are not judges. Now, no social media says, Please give your opinion on every subject under the sun. Social media says that you need to be able to pronounce your judgments tall for all the world to hear. And we may have this innate sense of justice within us. And we know what is right. And often that boils over this is wrong. This is not right. And we want to tell everyone, but as Christians, we have to understand we're not called to be judges, that is not our job. We are not called to avenge ourselves, to seek to make things right. And again, that Justice boils over and we say, well, that's not fair. That's not right, that they should get away with this. And then we take the next step and say, I can make all things right. I'm the one that can avenge myself, because I wouldn't want to allow something that's not fair to continue. But then I ask this simple question as well. Does it ever really work in our effort to make things right? Do we make things right, by retaliating? Do we create more peace by returning to someone else what they've done to us? Do we make things right? No, that's not what our hot headed retaliation accomplishes. It only escalates sin, and makes things worse. There's more enmity, there is more sin. And that's quite natural when we try to take just God's job and make all things right. It's no wonder that we flounder in that job, and we don't do it as well as Certainly God can do. Now, we are not the judge, God is the judge. And we don't need to take vengeance for ourselves, we need to leave room for God's vengeance. You know, sometimes we act like we have cornered the market on truth, justice or what is right, but we haven't, that begins and ends with God Almighty. He is true and rights patient and just. And for this reason, he is the only true and perfect judge. James four in verse 12, says there is only one law giver and judge, he who is able to save and to destroy. But who are you to judge your neighbor? In comparison to God, we there is no comparison. There's only one that is able to judge. And so why do we take that on ourselves? Why do we take it on ourselves to condemn others, and try to make all things right? God will bring vengeance. We see this in Second Thessalonians. One in verses five through eight. God is the avenger of that which is evil. And he will do his job perfectly. In Second Thessalonians one and verse five, it says, this is evidence of the righteous judgment of God, that you may be considered worthy of the kingdom of God for what you are also suffering. Since Indeed, God considers it just to repay with affliction, those who afflict you, and to grant relief to you who are afflicted as well as to us. When the Lord Jesus is revealed from heaven with his mighty angels and flaming fire, inflicting vengeance on those who do not know God, and on those who do not obey the gospel of our Lord Jesus. Yes, God will avenge. God will avenge. We don't have to make things right. God will make things right and he will do it in his time. And without mistake, but let me hasten to say this as well. God will bring judgment, but that is not all. And that is not all his desire. His desire is not to strike everyone down that has ever done anything wrong. That's not what he wants. He wants all people to be saved, to repent and come to a knowledge of the truth. So his vengeance is not immediate. As far as often is, you do something wrong to me, I need to repay immediately. But that's not how God works. Because that's not ultimately what he wants for any of us. His vengeance. No, he wants us To repent, and he wants to forgive. So while we need to make room for the judgment or the vengeance of God, leave room for God's wrath. We also need to leave room for God's mercy. And realize that we need to seek and desire what God wants and that is that that person might repent and be saved and come to know God. So leave room for God's wrath. Fourth, I would suggest that we need to overcome evil, with good, overcome evil with good. And verse 20. It says this, to the contrary, if your enemy is hungry, feed him. If he is thirsty, give him something to drink. For by so doing you will heap burning coals on his head. Do not be overcome by evil but overcome evil with good in verse 20, Paul quotes of Proverbs proverbs 25, verses 21 and 22. Where there it says, When you come upon your enemy or feed your enemy when he is hungry, if he is thirsty, give him something to drink, and it uses that that phrase that quote, then you will put burning coals on his head. It's hard to know exactly what those burning coals are. But I think if we look at the passage in context, we can see how that functions. burning coals may simply be a sense of shame that one recognizes for, for inappropriate behavior. When you do something wrong, and someone does the same thing, it doesn't seem so wrong, does it? But if you do something wrong, and someone does what is right, you're confronted with the wrongness of your decision. And so when someone does what is right in the face of you're wrong, that can be a humbling thing that can cause you to burn with shame. Another commentator said that this may be the idea and he traced some Egyptian Wisdom literature that may have been connected what we find in Proverbs that the idea is simply having this burning coal in your head would be an idea of changing your mind. In both of those would relay, the same concept. The reason that we want to do what is right is so that we can influence others for good. This is not an alternative form of retaliation, I'm going to make them feel bad. No, that's not the goal. Simply that they would feel bad. The goal is that they would come to know God, and they would come to do what is right. All throughout the scriptures. All throughout the New Testament, we find the the concept of suffering. And Christians are to endure suffering, partly so that we can influence others for good to do what is right. And so again, we find this idea of leaving room not for God's wrath not only for God's wrath, but also leaving room for God's mercy. The goal is that they would change and do what is right. And so we respond to their unkindness, we respond to their evil, not with evil, but with good. And so we see in verse 21, Do not be overcome by evil but overcome evil with good. What he's saying there is that we do not return in kind, evil, or bad things. But we flip the script, don't wait, we change that and we do what is good. We do what is good. And Romans 12, we says we do what is good by blessing others by doing what is honorable in the sight of all, and by seeking peace with others, we do what is good and right to other people. Jesus speaks to this in the Sermon on the Mount as well, in Matthew 538 through 42. Jesus there said, You have heard that it was said An eye for an eye and a tooth for two. But I say to you do not resist the one who is evil. But if anyone slaps you on the right cheek, turn to him the other also and if anyone would sue you and take your tunic, let him have your cloak as well. And if anyone forces you to go one mile, go with him two miles, give to the one who begs from you and do not refuse the one who would borrow from you. An eye for an eye was a legal concept in which you were to exact a punishment upon someone in a legal setting that fit the crime. And so if someone took an AI from another as punishment on behalf of the government, we find that there I wouldn't be taken out Well, you can see how many people would transfer that from what the government is doing in terms of justice to what an individual can do. They say, If you harm me, then I'm going to harm you. I will avenge myself. But Jesus says, that is not the way of the Christian. This is what you've heard to act out in your personal life, but I say to you, and it's amazing to me what Jesus says, Jesus calls his followers to radical discipleship, marked by suffering, by service, by goodwill to others in the face of persecution. We may look at this. And we may see that this seems unusual that we would do this. But we have the choice, don't we have how we will respond to that persecution? We're not to be those that are defeated by Eve. But we seek to do what is good. Now, I will tell you at the end of this, when you look at Jesus, you're left saying, again, that's not fair. That's not right. Our goal is not to make things fair and right. And we may have to give of ourselves, for others. But we are to do what is right. And we are not to be overcome by any evil that others may put upon us. One of the things I see in this passage is the use of creativity. Often when we face persecution, we feel like we have two options, I need to either strike back or I can do nothing. There's nothing I can do. I see a lot of creativity and what Jesus is saying here that, that we need to think about how we can respond to this. What is it that can bring about something that is good? How could we influence this individual, we don't simply have two options, retaliate or do nothing? No, we can respond in such a way that we can influence even if that involves some suffering, and difficulty on our part. One of the things I love about this passage in in Romans 12, as we go back there, notice what it says. And I think this ties into what we see in Matthew five, Do not be overcome by evil but overcome evil with good. Those who are persecuted. often consider themselves victims don't say I'm defeated, I'm, I'm merciless, at the hands of one that is stronger. There's nothing that I can do. But Paul says Christians are not victims, we are not to be overcome. But what are we to do? We are to overcome ourselves. And we are to overcome evil with good. Many people that are persecuted carry along the emotional, physical, psychological scars of being the victim, the bully is in control. And they must simply receive what the other gives. But Paul turns that concept on its head says no, we have control of ourselves and we can choose to do what's right. And truth. Retaliation is for the weak, the one that simply allows their impulses to run free. But we find courage and strength and the one that can return kindness and good to those that are evil. Christians are not victims, but they are victors. They are in control of themselves. And they can overcome evil with good. In First John five in verse four, it says, For everyone who has been born of God overcomes the world. And this is the victory that has overcome the world, our face. I think that's an important mindset that we need to have as Christians, regardless of what we face here and the difficulties we face here. And whether we run up against those with more power. Ultimately, we are victors not because of how great we are, but because of how great our God is. And He will make all things right. As we do good to others. One other point I'll make is that we need to have a forgiving heart. Really, forgiveness is the opposite of retaliation. Retaliation seeks to do harm to the others because they did it to us but forgiveness saves us from the disease of the heart produced through retaliation. We really harm ourselves when we retaliate. We think we're getting back at them but we harm ourselves in Ephesians, four in verse 31. There it says, Let all bitterness and wrath and anger and clamor, and slander be put away from you, along with all malice. Now simply pause there and say to me, there is no greater description of what's involved in the heart of someone who seeks to retaliate. There is rat bitterness, wrath, anger, slander, you seek to do harm, let that be put away from you, and be kind to one another, tender hearted, forgiving one another as God in Christ Jesus forgave you. Yes, we need to return good to others. And we need not be overcome by evil by perpetrating it, but we need to overcome evil with good. I'll close with this one point. And that is when we think about retaliation. aren't we glad that God is not a God of retaliation? aren't we glad that God doesn't immediately strike us dead when we do something wrong? No, God is a God of love. And ultimately, he will be a God of justice. He will not allow people to turn away from Him forever, but his desire is that we would come to him and he freely offers forgiveness to each one of us. And so I give you the invitation that God provides. That is He wants you to be his shrine. If you're here this morning, and you're not a Christian, you have an opportunity to answer the call the invitation that God gives by believing that Jesus is the Christ, repenting of your sins and turning away from them. confessing Jesus as the Christ and being baptized in the water for forgiveness of sins. Oh, happy day that we could be a child of God and you have that opportunity this morning. If you're here this morning and you're a Christian, but you're not living as you should. You're not responding to God as you should then you need to make corrections as well. If there are any that are subject to the invitation, please come as we stand and sing at this time.


Transcribed by https://otter.ai