What a blessing it is to come together in worship by God today. And certainly, as we've already mentioned this morning, we're grateful that many of us have been spared the tragedy in the disaster with the tornado a straight line winds. And as I was seeing some customers, people yesterday up in Hendersonville, I realized that that tornado so when it went over our house, somewhere far enough away, but then within a mile or two, it touched down another subdivision and we realize that we live by the grace of God, we live for His glory and praise. And we want to trust him as he meets every need that we have and served him. So we are grateful to be here and appreciate the songs that JB led for us this morning. As you can tell, we'll be talking about love this morning. In fact, if you want to go ahead and look at turn to First John chapter four, that's going to be the text of my lesson this morning. And and that particular section is especially the last part of First John chapter four, there's a phrase in there that I want us to think about this morning, the phrase is perfect love. And and John talks about, really the the the importance of developing perfect love for God for each other. And then we really see the benefits of that perfect lamp. So let's look at the text this morning. I want to read this. And then we'll look at some scriptures on the screen. But just to get some little background over here in First John chapter four and verse seven. John says, Beloved, let us love one another for love is from God. And everyone who loves is born of God knows God. The one who does not love does not know God, for God is love. By this, the love of God was manifested in us that God sent His only begotten Son into the world, so that we might live through Him. And this is love. Not that we love God, but that He loved us, it sets his son to be the propitiation for our sins. Beloved, if God still loves us, we also ought to love one another. No one has seen God at any time. If we love God, God abides in us and his love is perfected in us. By this, we know that we abide in Him and He in us, because He has given us of His Spirit. We have seen him testify that the Father has sent the Son to be the Savior of the world. Whoever confesses that Jesus is the Son of God, God abides in him and he and God knows, knows verses 16 to the end of the chapter, John says, We have come to know and have believed the love which God has for us. God is love, and the one who abides in love abides in God, and God abides in him, by this love is perfected with us so that we may have confidence in the Day of Judgment. Because as he is, so also are we in this world, there is no fear in love. but perfect love casts out fear, because fear involves punishment. And the one who fears is not perfected in love, we love because he first loved us. If someone says I love God and hates his brother, he is a liar. For the one who does not love his brother whom he has seen, cannot love God who he has not seen. And this commandment we have from him, that the one who loves God should love his brother also. Now, these are verses that are very familiar to most of us. And we're gonna be focusing on verses 16 through 21 this morning to put together five lessons five points that want us to glean from this text as we consider this phrase that John uses perfect love. And so that is the title of my lesson this morning. And I think is illustrated from this graph that perfect love is unprejudiced loves all people of any race color, background and creed is the kind of love that we need to have. So the five points I want us to notice from this lesson this morning. The first one is that perfect love gives us confidence in the Day of Judgment. So you notice over here in First John chapter four, verse 16, you just read this, it says so we have come to know and believe the love that God has for us. God is love. And Whoever abides in love abides in God and God abides in Him by this is love perfected with us, so that we may have confidence on the Day of Judgment. So that was the first point I want to understand understand in terms of appreciating the value of love the importance of it and then the benefits of love. Perfect love gives us confidence. On the Day of Judgment, and we certainly means do His will be obedient to God's word. But that's a important point that I wants to want us to think about. So perfect love, gives us confidence. So now the question is, what is perfect love? That's the question to ask. So if you jump back up the verse 16, this begins to put the picture, picture together for us of what perfect love is. So verse 16, says, so we have come to know and believe the love that God has for us now stop for just a minute, think about that. He says, so we have come to know. And we believe the love that God has for us. I like how the NIV puts it. It says, and so we we know and rely on the love that God has for us. My question is, do you? Do you know the love of God? Do you rely on His love? Or do you rely on sometimes like I do my good works, my deeds and my knowledge and other things that I might have in my life. But we rely on the love of God. And the New Living translation puts it this way. It says, we know how much God loves us, and have put our trust in His love. So again, I have to slow down and ask that question. Do you really know how much God loves you? Is there any way to fathom that? The depth and the magnitude of God's love and His grace towards you and me? And that's the foundation over here of our confidence. Certainly, we obey God's will we have to do that, to demonstrate our gratitude towards him. But he's talking about understanding the magnitude of God's love for us saw this statement some years ago, it says you are loved beyond measure. Wow. There's no way there's no way to write it. There's no way to sing it. There's no way to dissect it and analyze it. God's love for you is magnificent. beyond comprehension. And what it produces for us, especially as New Testament Christians, is a confidence on the Day of Judgment. Again, that's that's something that's a truth that we need to recognize, I'm afraid that too many of us Christians don't believe this truth how much God really loves you how much he is willing to die for each one of us, and need to see the benefit of that. And so he's saying here, that perfect love. That's the phrase of this lesson this morning. Perfect love, gives us confidence in a day of judgment. Then it goes on to say number 16, God is love. That's that's his nature. That's his character. God is love. And Whoever abides in love abides and God think about that again, Whoever abides in love, abides and God. Yes, we certainly follow His Word, we obey His teachings, completely, totally. But he said, Whoever abides in this type of love abides in God or remains in God, and God remains in him. Again, the importance of that. So in verse 17, he said, By this is love, effective assess, we're talking about perfect love. And that is something that takes a while to grow into, to develop that type of love. It's really loving the way Jesus loves us. That's perfect love. And it's a challenge to reach that level. And so we saying perfect loves gives us confidence in the day of judgment. And then he says, so that we have confidence, the day of judgment, and then it says, because as he is, so also, are we in this world? What does that mean? As he is as Jesus is? So also are we in this world again, what's he saying over here again, I go to the New Living Translation, and basically says, we can face him with confidence because we live like Jesus here in this world. So in the end, we want to be more and more like Jesus loving like Jesus forgiving, like Jesus obeying like Jesus. So perfect love is the same type of love that Jesus demonstrated to his life, we strive to become more and more like Him. And so that's the challenge that that is set before each of us and we need to grow in that level of love. I've been a Christian for a long time now 44 years, but I'm still trying to learn and believe how much God loves me and how much he is willing, willing to do for me. And my challenge is to strive to love him. And to love other people the same way Jesus practice love. So perfect love gives us confidence in the Day of Judgment. Secondly, I want to suggest from this text, that perfect love has no fear, and in fact, drives out all fear. So again, these are verses that we're familiar with. But it's so worth our while to delve into this text again to appreciate that. So there are four thoughts that come in, in this particular verse, verse 18, there is no fear in love. Think about that for a minute. There is no, this type of paralyzing fear there's no fear in love. Perfect love casts out fear. The NIV said perfect love drives out fear. The New Living Translation says perfect love expels all fear. That's the power of love. So there's no fear and love perfect love casts out fear, for fear has to do with punishment, and whoever fears has not been perfected in love. And so again, we just have to appreciate what John is teaching us over here. He didn't say that there's a little fear in love, or that there is a small trace of fear in love. He said, There is no fear in love. And and as these other translations indicate, perfect love drives out, cast out and expels all fear. To put it another way fear cannot coexist with perfect love. So it's so important to develop this type of love. That God is, is teaching us to, to to develop. And so practically, if I if we wrestle with fear, if I wrestle with fierce because I don't love enough, I mean, maybe I need more faith, that's true. But perfect love expels fear. And if I love God, deeply and wholly and sincerely and genuinely, I'm not going to be afraid of him. We have a reverence in the standards of balance in scripture. But in this context, it reminds us that, that if we are struggling with fear, or anything related to that is because our love is not complete is not what it should be. I think the same is true of anxiety and worry, worry and anxiety are cousins of fear. And again, if we struggle with worry, it's because we don't love the heart of God, we don't trust the goodness of God who's going to meet every need, that we have in our lives. Somebody said that anxiety is out of place in a father's love, think about that anxiety is out of place, in a father's love. What father among us want our children to be anxious, not one of us. We want them to have confidence, assurance that we're going to be there for them and meet every need that they have. And again, it just reminds us that we meet this strive to achieve this goal of perfect love. And as the text says over here, perfect love. drives out all fear. I like how the, again, the New Living translation puts it. It says such love has no fear because perfect love expels all fear, if we are afraid, is for fear of punishment. And this shows that we have not fully experienced His perfect love. In the end the the issue is trusting the God of all love and mercy and grace. And please do not misunderstand me. We certainly need to obey God. But I've been preaching there for the last 35 years of my life not preaching as long as I have life and breath in me. But we're talking about reaching a level of confidence and peace of mind in our lives. And we achieve that when we learn to love others and learn to love God the same way Jesus does and did. And so he says over here, that this fear of punishment is because that we've not fully experienced our Father's love. And that that is the challenge I think for us to be thinking about. So oftentimes in my life, I base my salvation so often on some performances, how many Bible classes I have taught how many people have taught how much Scripture I know and those are all good things to know. But this reminds me that my confidence on the Day of Judgment is in proportion to how much how much I have perfected my love for God. And for others. It's not based on all the good things that I've done. I need to be doing good works and good deeds. I remember the story. That brother leached told us from out in Phoenix, Arizona, where he preached for many yours. I don't know, remember if he was preaching or somebody else was preaching, but the invitation song was extended. And his elderly sister in Christ came forward, she'd been a faithful Christian her whole life, serving God the way that you and I are striving to serve him. She came forward in brotherly. She said, How can I help you, sister? And she said, I'm afraid. I haven't done enough. And he said, Well, sister, that's right. You haven't done enough. You can't do enough. And I can't do enough. The blood of Jesus Christ cleanses us from all sin and all unrighteousness. But how many of us are like this sister in Christ thinking? I haven't done enough. I haven't done enough the Lord for his cause for His Kingdom. How many people like Todd, how much did the Scripture do? I know, you can't know enough, you can spend your life doing those things. But it's reminder that good works and good deeds. Don't drive out fear. Love does. That's what this text is saying, isn't it. And I'm still learning to try to love like Jesus loves. So again, these are powerful truths. And we need to, to be diligent as we seek to understand God's word. But the text tells us clearly, clearly that perfect love, casts out fear. And if I'm, if I struggle with fear, then my level of love is not like Jesus was. And so that's the challenge for us to reach that level. Thirdly, from this text, I want to suggest to us that perfect love, that's our phrase, this one perfect love originates in the heart of God, and in his perfect character. And I want you to think about this with me. So the text that we're looking at here, we just said, that there's no fear in love, perfect love drives out fear. First. 19 says that we love, love God love others, because He first loved us. And so the question is, is the text saying that God loved us first. And so we need to love him back. For God loved us first, we need to love him back. I don't really think that's what he's saying. There is a reciprocal response there. But what I think he's saying here is that we love because we learned love through one who possesses Infinite Love and perfect cloud. That's God Himself, this Jesus Christ. So we love God, and we love each other. Because we learn that from the heart of God, it's not like he loved us, I'm gonna love him. Now, it's not so simple like that. And I think the text is telling us that perfect love originates in God's heart. And in his perfect character. I want you to look at this statement with me and First Peter chapter, Second Peter chapter one. So Peter, is encouraging these Christians who are facing lots of persecution reminding them of God's grace and mercy is multiplied to them in verse three, says, for his divine power has granted to us everything pertaining to life and godliness. And before I forget, I see that word everything there's a song out there called everything by acapella Have y'all know that? We like I like to learn that as soon as we're able to what a powerful thought to think about God has given us everything we need. So many times, I think, I'm lacking, I should have more gifts, more talents, or whatever. But God has given us everything that we need. And so one of these days we'll get Jeremy or norm or somebody to learn that song and teach that to us. But that's the truth. God has given us everything that we need pertaining to life and godliness. And it says through their true knowledge of Him of Jesus Christ, who called us think about this, by His own glory, and excellence, or goodness. Now that is a life changing truth for you right there, like God calls us and when you think about this, everything in God's creation redounds to His glory and praise and on everything it has in heaven and on earth, the sun, the moon, the stars, the ocean, people, everything that breathes, shouts prays to God. And so you might say, well, that's selfish, you know of God. Everything is pointing to him, was pointing to him because he is the Creator of everything. He said, loving God of heaven and earth, and He sent His Son to die for us. But it's not just for his praise. Ultimately, God calls us into His kingdom, so that we can partake of His glory and His praise this remarkable how can you stand next to God? How can he share His glory with you is because He loves you and He loves me. So as to me is one of those really Life Changing she has God called us into His kingdom by His own glory and grace, or goodness or kind. So one of the truths that we have to learn, even as longtime Christians is the heart of God is inherently good, is good for His creation, good for his people. And so that's the point I'm making you that perfect love originates in the heart of God, and in his perfect character. And so everything that he has done for us is based on His love and His mercy and His goodness towards us. So it's not so much like God loved me, I'm going to love him back. There is again a reciprocal response there. But but when we develop perfect love, then we are developing the very the heart and mind of God. Number four, should I Oh, I did, I already stressed that I forgot that I had high highlighted it. So number four from this text. If we claim to love God, and hate our brother or sister, then we don't love God back to text teaches us over here, that whoever claims to love God and yet hates a brother or sister is a liar. Think about that for just a minute. And if we claim that we love God, but we hate or look down upon a fellow brother or sister in Christ, He's not saying that we love God, a little, or our love for God is weak. He's saying you don't love God at all. If we say we love God, and hate our brother or sister in Christ, scriptures, calling us a liar. And who likes to be labeled a liar. But God's saying, through a script, if you John, If we say we love God, this, this is a practical application of this text here, we say that we love God, but we hate our brother in Christ, we are liars. That is powerful. And that's God saying that. And so we got to be careful that we, if we love God, we have to love each other. And then he says here for Whoever does not love their brother or sister, whom they have seen, cannot love God who they have not seen. So somebody says, Hey, I love I love God, I love God, Mike, I love God. But I can't stand my brother, your liar. God says you're not telling the truth. If you say you love God, and you hate your brother, you're in trouble. I'm in trouble. So loving God means that I have to love my brother, or my sister in Christ. So again, this is a practical import of what it means to love like Jesus. And that means I'm going to not just Professor faith or love for God, but it means I'm going to be careful not to despise or look down upon or hate, especially a brother or a sister in Christ. And then number five, loving God means that we must love our brothers and sisters in Christ. Again, this is this is what this chapter is pointing to, because it's all about God's love. If we live in love, we're living in God, He abides in us and we abide in him. But loving God means we must love our brothers and our sisters in Christ. So again, you look over here at this, this text. We just looked at verse 20. But you come down to verse 21. And he has given us this command. Now the probably the ESV, the numeric and verges numeric and standard version, say in this commandment we have from him. But I think the way the NIV puts it, he has given us this command. So the point I'm saying here, can God command us to love him? Can God command us to love each other? The answer is yes. In fact, that's the only way that we learn love is being commanded to love. In fact, we sang that song this morning at JB lead, you shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, all your soul, all your mind, all your strength, and then love your neighbor, as yourself and on these commandments. It's the command to love others. we're commanded to love God, we're commanded to love our brothers and sisters in Christ. And so sometimes it's a challenge, to have the loving mindset that God wants us to have. But that's really that's the impact of this, of this text over here is that loving God means that we have to love one another. And sometimes we sing that song angry words will let them never from the tongue unbroken Old Slip, you know. And so we got to be very careful in our mindset and our attitude, not just towards relating to our love for God, but certainly towards our love for each other. So this is a text is very, has personal meaning to me. And hopefully the truth will be helpful for each one of us again, God has given us command, anyone who loves God must also love their brother and sister. That's the point of the chapter. It's kind of really the point of the whole book of First, John. So as we looked at this morning, at the this idea of perfect love, the importance of it the power of perfect love, its reminder, that perfect love gives us confidence, in the Day of Judgment. We certainly want to be obedient to God and be engaged in good works and all of that. But love perfect love gives us confidence, perfect love has no fear. In fact, it drives out all fear, perfect love originates in the heart of God and in his perfect character. If we claim to love God and hate our brother, brethren, we are liars, John says, and loving God means that we must love our brothers and sisters in Christ. And so as we extend the invitation this morning, the question that we have to each ask ourselves, do you have do I have? Do we have perfect love for God and one another, and certainly, if we don't want to have any fear in the Day of Judgment, we need to learn to love like Jesus loves. And and I want to say this, that what perfect love should lead us to fully obeying the Word of God, the gospel of Jesus Christ. You can't say that you love God and refuse to be born again. To obey the gospel to turn from sin and to repent, to be baptized, you have to do those things. But understand before you make a decision to put on Christ and baptism, or turn from sin that's driven by a profound love for him. So love motivates our obedience to God. There's so many of us more than these to respond to the gospel in any way. vise or calm always stand and sing this invitation song


Transcribed by https://otter.ai