Jeremy Sweets  00:04
Good evening. So good to see everyone here tonight, it's good that we have a dry place to be able to come and gather together and worship God. So I appreciate so much the fact that you're here, and I'm glad to be able to worship with you. Tonight, a few years ago, Jessica and I took a trip to Europe. And one of the things you don't think about, we kind of take it for granted here is electricity. And so we have standard plugs that we take our devices, and we plug them in and charge them up. Well, if you go to Europe, and you try to take your standard plug in, plug in, and it's just simply not going to work. They have different kinds of plugs. And so one of the things that we had to do was buy a converter by these adapters that would change what they had and to what we need. Oh, in a very small way, I think we find that, that in this life, we also need to be converted, we need to be chained. We realize there's something about the way that this life is that simply does not work for us. Many people look for fulfilment in this lie. They look for the idea of having as much fun as they can, and is that going to fulfill me. And many people look to live in sin and live it up. And maybe that's all we're meant to do in this a lot. But I think the Bible tells us and points as to the fact that we need to be converted to a different mindset, we need to be converted and become as a child of God, so that we can have our so that we can have forgiveness of sins and be in a relationship with God. Well, I appreciate maths lesson this morning. One of the ways that he looked at that lesson was to simply ask some questions, and those were his main points. And so I'm going to do something very similar. I'd like to look at some important questions about conversion. And we're going to focus in Acts chapter eight, in the conversion of the Ethiopian unit, Acts chapter eight. And I'll simply begin by reading the text and x a 26, through 40. Now an angel of the Lord said to Philip, Rise and go toward the south to the road that goes down from Jerusalem to Gaza. This is a desert place. And he rose and went. And there was an Ethiopian, a unike, a court official of Candace, Queen of Ethiopians who was in charge of all her treasure. He had come to Jerusalem to worship, and was returning seated in his chariot. And he was reading the prophet Isaiah. And the Spirit said to Philip, go over and join this chariot. So Philip ran to him and heard him reading Isaiah the prophet and ask, do you understand what you are reading? And he said, How can I, unless someone guides me, he invited Philip to come up and sit with him. Now the passage of the scripture that he was reading was this. Like a sheep, he was led to the slaughter, and like a lamb before it shares his silence, so he opens not his mouth. And his humiliation justice was denied him, who can describe his generation for his life is taken away from the earth. And the unit said to Philip, about whom I asked, Does the Prophet say this, about himself or about someone else? Then Philip opened his mouth. And beginning with this scripture, he told him the good news about Jesus. And as they were going along the road, they came to some water. And the unit said, See, here's water, what prevents me from being baptized. And he commanded the chariot to stop and they both went down into the water, Philip and the unit, and he baptized him. And when they came up out of the water, the Spirit of the Lord carried Philip away. And the unit saw him no more, and went on his way rejoicing. But Philip found himself at a xodus. And as they pass through, he preached the gospel to all the towns until he came to assessories. As we look at this passage, in many ways, it's an amazing passage, it shows us God's love for each individual, and the proclamation of the gospel message. And so the first question that I really want to ask is, is what propels me to become a Christian? Or is there any reason why I should want to take the step of becoming a Christian? A propeller? Is your normally found on on a ship a submarine or found on an airplane and is that what drives it forward? which pushes it forward? So is there anything that would compel me to make that step to become a Christian? Well, I think as we look in the example of the Ethiopian Munich there are several things that that is propelling one to become a Christian. First of all, we see a searching mindset, a searching mindset. Notice in verse 27, after the Spirit tells Philip to go, it says he arose and went, and it says, and there was an Ethiopian, a unike accord official of Candice, queen of the Ethiopians who was in charge of all her treasure. He had come to Jerusalem to worship. And he was and was returning seated in his chariot, and he was reading the prophet Isaiah. Notice what we see about this Ethiopian unit, he was a worshiper, he had just been to Jerusalem in order to worship but he was not satisfied and simply having gone to worship, so to speak. But he continued to seek, he continued to read and we see that he has an investigating mind. I think one that is searching realizes something again about this law, that there is a need that we have, there is something we have that is lacking. And Ecclesiastes chapter three in verses 11 and 12. There it talks about the fact that God has placed within our hearts, he turned it, there is something within us that seeks for something beyond us. We realize that we are not all that there is there has to be something bigger than we are. And that searching mind is looking for. God is looking for something beyond us. Well, this man was a worshiper, and this man was continuing to read God's word. We noticed that he did this even though he was a man of great responsibility. He was a unit he was official and, and the court of the queen of the Ethiopians. Not only that he was in charge of the Treasury. He was the national treasurer. And so we we look at this man, and we know that he was busy. He had many things that occupied his mind, there is great responsibility that was placed upon him. But that did not seem to satisfy him. That was not all that he needed. He was looking for something more. When Paul proclaim the gospel and Acts chapter 17, he spoke to a grant a bunch of inquires people that had searching minds, they were philosophers, and they were used to asking questions, what is truth? And how can we come to know truth and all of these things. And when Paul saw that they had a an idol to an unknown god, he says, what you don't know I'm going to tell you about the God that he knew, he proclaimed, and acts 17, in verse 26, within that sermon, he makes this statement. And he made from one man, every nation of mankind, to live on all the face of the earth, having determined allotted periods and the boundaries of their dwelling place, that they should seek God, and perhaps feel their way toward him and find him. Notice that the God that created all things that says that he created from one man, every nation, all people, not only is he the creator of all nations, and all people, but he has allotted within them their boundaries and their timeframes. He has sustained and controlled all of that. This is a mighty God. And as he is created all nations, they, as they come from this one man, they are also to seek, and they have this heart that they should seek after God. And it says perhaps they might feel their way or grope toward him and find him. You have the imagery of one that is in the dark. You ever had the lights go out on year the power went out, and you weren't quite ready for that. You have to start feeling around, right. That's the sense of many people in this world that they are in the darkness. And they are groping about feeling about looking for and searching. And so we see that this man had a searching mind. And Paul tells us that that those that are seeking God searching for him, they can find him, they can find him. And so I think we see this searching mind propelling more propelling the Ethiop to become a Christian. The second thing I'll notice that something that propels one to become a Christian is a loving God, a loving God. And acts eight and verse 29. It simply says this in the Spirit said to Philip, go over and join this chariot. We'd already seen it earlier that the spirits sent Philip along this path along this way that was going from as the unit was coming from Jerusalem to some area. Now, Philip had just been in some area, or excuse me, not Jerusalem Samaria. Philip had been in some area preaching. And so this was the route that went from Jerusalem to Gaza. Okay, so it basically went from Jerusalem, and it was headed toward the Mediterranean Sea. So the spirit sins fill up on this route on this road. And, and it would make sense to me, as I look out to see a preacher, especially in the New Testament going and preaching to a mass of people, it will make sense to see someone that had a large crowd that it needed to go to, in fact, we see an x to 3000 that were converted. And there were many more that heard the gospel message that day. But notice what the Spirit directs the preacher to do here to go to this one man that is traveling along the road. What does that tell us about God? God loves and cares for each individual. It's amazing to me that the creator of the universe, saw and cared about this one man that was traveling along the road. And do you think that's an isolated case? Do you think God only cares about that one man? No, I think that's indicative of God's care and his love for each and every one of us. What is it that God wants for us? Well, Matt even mentioned this in his sermon this morning. God wants us to be saying, God's desire is that we would be in fellowship with him that we would put away sin and that we would be in fellowship and unity with God Almighty. And First Timothy two and verse three, it says this, this is good. And it is pleasing in the sight of God, our Savior, who desires all people to be saved, and to come to the knowledge of the truth. God wants us to be saved, and he wants us to be saved so much, that he was willing even to sacrifice of himself. We see the Greek gods were selfish beings that wanted all power and all things for themselves. And they didn't mind to harm anybody they got in their way, human are so called God. But the God of the Bible is one that loves so deeply, that he sacrifices of them of his own self, for us, and for all people. And John 316, it says, For God so loved the world, that He gave His only Son, that whoever believes in Him should not perish but have eternal life. So I believe we see in the case of the Ethiopian eunuch, a loving God, a loving God. But let me just point to one other thing about this loving God. Consider how this loving God seeks to influence or propel this man, to become a Christian. It's not through a direct message, God doesn't tap him on the shoulder and say, I have something I want you to hear. It's not through a dream or speaking to him. There are times that God used that in the Old Testament. But here we see that, that God sends the preacher to speak the word of God, that this man, and God does that because of His great love, because He wants him to be saved. But it's fascinating to me the manner in which God carries this out. He does not speak to him personally. He does not change his heart directly, so to speak, but rather he brings him in contact with the preacher of the word. And that leads me to my next point what what would propel me or push me forward to become a Christian? I believe a searching mindset, a mindset that realizes there is a great need that we have that is not fulfilled in this law. I also believe that it's a loving God when we see the kind of God that we serve, but it's also the proclaimed Christ, the proclaimed Christ, Philip, join the Unix share it and he engaged him about what he was reading. We already saw that he was reading from the prophet Isaiah, and they exchanged a series of questions. You understand what you're reading? Well, how could I understand this unless someone guides me unless someone explains this to me? Well, God through the Holy Spirit had sent this preacher Philip to him in order to explain to him the Word of God. The passage that he was reading was from Isaiah 53, Isaiah 53 And that that passage talks about a suffering servants one that would be a servant of God. but yet a an abused and mistreated a suffering servant. Normally when we see the people of God we think of especially in the Old Testament men like David, those that were mighty those that cause the enemies to fall under neath them, those that were strong. And so it's quite odd to hear this language of a suffering servants. This group of prophecies is not only found in Isaiah 53, but we also find it in Isaiah 4249 5052 and 53. So it's a group of passages that talk about the suffering servant. And we could devote a whole lesson or several lessons to the study of those passages. But let me simply quote a few passages. In Isaiah 42 And verse one, it says, Behold, my servants, whom I uphold my chosen and whom I sold a lot, I put my spirit upon Him, He will bring forth justice to the nation's. And verse three, it says that he is a bruised reed that will faithfully bring forth justice. And Isaiah 49 In verse six, it says that he was from the womb are formed from the womb to be a servant, and he will raise up the tribes of Jacob, to bring back the preserved of Israel, I will make you as a light for the nations that my salvation may reach the ends of the earth, God is going to, through this suffering servant restore back the preserve the visual, but also have his salvation reach to the end of the earth. We see in Isaiah 50, in verse six. They're speaking as the suffering servant, I gave my back to those who strike me and my cheeks, to those who pull out the beer. I hid not my face from disgrace, and spitting. And then in Acts 832, and 33, we see the passage that was quoted from Isaiah 53. And there are verses seven and eight, like a sheep, he was led to the slaughter, and like a lamb before it, shear is silent. So he opens not as mouth. And as humiliation justice was denied him, who can describe his generation, for his life is taken away from the Earth. The unic was in Isaiah 53. And we don't know how much he had been reading, we know that likely he had a scroll, and so I wouldn't quite as been as easy to manage. But that's at the end of all of those Servant Songs. I can only guess that he had read the servant statements that come before that, because Isaiah 53 is the last of the last of that collection. And so as he read this, he wants to know, who is this talking about? Who is this suffering servant that is going to bring justice, and not only for the restored people of Israel, but for all people to the ends of the earth. And that's why where we see an x eight in verse 35, it says, And Philip opened his mouth and beginning with this scripture, he told him the good news about Jesus, that suffering servant that we see in Isaiah is not just a fictitious character, it's not just a superhero sorts, mythic tale. But that one was fulfilled in Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ is the one that would come and suffer and die, even the death on the cross. But that sounds like a horrible thing, this suffering servant, but it's good news. Because that death was carried out for the sins of the world, for for the forgiveness of all people, if they would simply come to him. So what would propel me or anyone to become a Christian? Well, I'm sure there's many other things in this text, but at least three that I saw, are a searching mindset, a loving God, and the proclaimed Christ. But let me let me flip that question around and actually borrow a question from the unit. And that is what would prevent me from being baptized. I talked about what would propel us to become a Christian Well, what prevents me from being baptized and x a and verse 36. Right after the passage, we just read that Philip opened his mouth and spoke to him the good news about Jesus and verse 36. It says this, as they're going along the road, they came to some water and the unit said, See, here's water. What prevents me from being baptized? I think when the UNIQ asked this question, He was not trying to escape from baptism by I see an eagerness in him. I'm ready right now. He's not trying to schedule this for a week later or a month later or trying to think about this he was convicted. What would stop me? Or what could possibly stop me from being baptized right now there's water right here. Is there anything we need to wait for? And so I see an eagerness in the unit, as he seeks to be baptized. And that's that's confirmed later on is after he was baptized, he went on his way rejoicing. It was such an amazing event for him. But I thought it would be helpful to seriously ask this question, what does prevent people from being baptized, there are things that stand in people's way. And so I'd like to look, those are just a few moments. One of the things that may keep people from being baptized is a fear of others, a fear of how they will respond or how they will react to someone that names the name of Christ. Sometimes we fear those closest to us, those in our family, our mother or father, the brothers, sisters, those that are very close to us. Jesus said in Matthew 10, in verse 37, whoever loves father or mother more than Me is not worthy of me. And whoever loves son or daughter more than Me is not worthy of Me, it would be a terrifying thing to be cut off from your family. And we shouldn't, we shouldn't gloss over that fact. The demands that are put upon that one that would become a Christian is so great that we must put Christ above even our closest relationships. And it may be easy for us, maybe you had parents that were Christians, and you are asking others in the world to make this kind of commitment, it may be easy for us thinking, I'm never going to have to make that decision. But we need to be prepared. We need to be prepared, that we would do whatever it is that we feel is necessary to serve. And so you may ask, Would you be willing to change your position on what you think the Bible truly teaches? If it conflicted with your family? Would you be willing to step out and take a stand for Christ if it conflicted with your family? Well, we need to put Christ above all else. We may fear not only our family, but maybe there's a religious community that we're a part of, or there's a group that we're a part of, and they would not take kindly to being baptized or to this teaching. And John 12, in verse 42, it said, Nevertheless, many even of the authorities believed in him Jesus, but for fear of the Pharisees, they did not confess it, so that they would not be put out of the synagogue, for they love the glory that comes from man more than the glory that comes from God. They were afraid that they would be put out of the synagogue and this, this plays itself not only in religious communities, but really many other places. You might be afraid that your friends will make fun of you. You may be afraid that others will look down on you may be afraid of what people might think of you if you were to make this decision. And that may keep you from confessing cry. But verse 43 really lays out the crux of the matter. The question is not how will other people treat us but what is our primary motivation? Is it to be pleasing to God, or to be pleasing to Me? And so we must put God above all else that is the man that is called upon us. But let us acknowledge the fact that a fear of others can prevent people from being baptized. There's also feelings of unworthiness. Sometimes people do not become a Christian because they feel simply unworthy. Their sins are too great. They are not like you good people that go to church. They are bad because of what they've done. And we see many people with these feelings of inadequacy. When I say they're bad because of what they've done, that's what they're telling themselves in their head. I am simply on words. I think Paul had a glimpse of the sense of unworthiness, but he was able to understand what was even greater. And First Corinthians 15 And verse nine. He said, For I am the least of the apostles unworthy to be called an apostle, because I persecuted the church of God that is with me. We see here and unworthiness because because of what he had done, he had persecuted the church. And he felt great shame because of that. But that's not the end of Paul's story. And verse 10, he says, but by the grace of God, I am what I am and His grace toward me was not in vain. God's grace was able to save even a sinner like Paul, even a persecutor of the church. And the Old Testament, we see David who was a murdering adulterer. But he went to God for forgiveness, and he found there is no sin that we could commit, that God will not forgive us for if we are willing to make that that decision to repent and turn away from God has promised that he will forgive us. Mike's talking about his class we just looked at in Hebrews six, this last one is the nine there is a sin that will not be forgiven, and that is the one we do not repent. If we continue with a rebellious heart, we cannot receive forgiveness in that state. But if we are willing to repent, God will forgive us. We may feel unworthy, but we need to understand the focus should not be on us. God's grace can cover us. And so we need to turn away from this sense of inadequacy and understand where that can come from, but turn that to God, and to Jesus Christ, whose graces so mighty and powerful that it can cover our sin. So that might be another reason that people are prevented from being baptized. There's also the cost of discipleship. Being a Christian is not an easy lie. There are other things that may make people happier, and they may be long, they may be able to do things that they would prefer to do. And Luke 14, verse 26, and 27, Jesus shows us again, the severity of the commitment that is needed to become a Christian. If anyone comes to Me and does not hate his own father, and mother, and wife and children and brothers and sisters, yes, and even his own life, he cannot be My disciple. Whoever does not bear his own cross and come after Me cannot be My disciple. Notice that we have to elevate our love for God so much, that is, if we hated those around us, the degree or the comparison is one in which we place God above others. And he says, and even his own life, Matthew 16, it uses the language that that we must take up our cross and deny ourselves. Well, if you're not willing to deny yourself, then you may not be a great candidate for a Christian because that's that's required. Jesus goes on to talk about one that would build a tower. And he goes on to talk about a king over an army. And so if you're building a tower, or if you're a king over an army, and you have this great project before you, you have to consider the cost, don't you're building a tower, you need to make sure you have the materials, you have the right expertise. And you need to consider everything that goes into that before you build a tower. Or if you're a king over an army ready to go on the attack, you need to make sure you have the right men and the right, again, training and all the things in place. The point is you don't take a great undertaking without counting and considering what it will take to get there. And so it is with being a Christian, being a disciple. Yes, there are many blessings that are promised but but being a Christian is not only the blessings that are to come, but it will involve suffering, it will involve difficult will involve denying ourselves. It may involve strained relationships with others, or things that can come about because of that. And so if were to become a Christian and be baptized, we need to consider the cost a band aside, are we willing to make that commitment? One other reason that may prevent people from being baptized is simply the the idea that it's not the right time. It's not the right time. You know, sometimes when we have an important decision that's before us, we can simply procrastinate. Well, that's too big of a decision. Yeah. Now's not the right time, or that's a great idea. But I've got some other things that I really need to do, you know, I need to get some other things in order. And that's on my list. You know, I it's fourth or fifth. Let me just take care of these things first. And some people say it's simply not the right time. And Acts chapter 24. Actually have AX a mess? Not right, I'm looking at Felix. I think that's 26. And I'll go here and confirm real quick. 23 Okay. X 23. And in verse 24, it talks about Paul as he was preaching before Felix, who was a ruler of the people. And it says in verse 24, after some days Felix came with his wife, Priscilla, who was Jewish, and he said for Paul, and heard him speak about faith in Christ Jesus. And he reasoned about righteousness and self control in the coming judgment. Felix was alarmed and said, Go away for the present. When I get an opportunity, I will summon you. In or sometimes when we face difficulties, or the challenge of making a decision, the easiest thing to do is simply hide our head in the sand and avoid it all together. I'll do it when the time is right. I need to do other things first. Well, Paul says, I wish that I would persuade you. My goal is to persuade you. And I think that's even a grip on getting those stories mixed up. But he wanted to convince others of the importance of serving Christ. And so we see that the time to do what is right is always right now. It's always right now. Well, those are two questions that I wanted to ask. And I provided some answers. But I'd like to close with questions for you. Some questions for you. So what are we to think about when we're weighing this important decision? One of the things we need to think about is, Have you considered the gospel? Have you thought about what's involved in the gospel? You thought about the good news, that God has loved you so much, that He sent His Son to die on the cross for you? Do you realize that Jesus left the throne of glory to come down to this earth and live as a man to humble himself as a servant? For you? That's great news. What's so great about that is that he died, so that you can have forgiveness. And there is no other way for you to accomplish that. It's like you're out to sea without a rat, you're out to sea without any life preserver, there's nothing there that can save you. You're surrounded and swallowed up by your own sin and the guilt that that brain, but yet Jesus died for you. And that is good, knew if someone had cancer, and the news came that you could take this medicine, and it would save you, can you imagine the greatness of that news? How excited someone would be? Well, when it comes to our soul, our soul is even more important than our physical body. And if there is news that that we can be saved? How great is that news? It is good news. So have you considered the impact or the importance of what God has done? And the good news that you're here? Have you counted the cost? Becoming a Christian is an important decision, it's an adult decision, and it's one that should not be made. Hastily or without thought, you need to be convicted of the gospel message, so much so that you are willing to give your life for God, you're willing to give your life whether that be an actually giving it in depth or or is more likely for us giving it in every day, every decision you would make would not be for you. But it would be for God. Have you counted the cost of that? Have you considered what would be required to become a Christian? We, we consider the cost when we weigh the benefits and the costs and the trouble it would bring about. So have you counted the call? Another question I like to ask is, is it worth it to become a Christian? And so that gets into this idea when we see the good news, but we also see the cost. When we weigh the is it worth it? The Bible says there can be a lot of difficulty and a lot of challenge and it may last our entire lives. Is it worth it to become a Christian? Paul answers that question Romans eight and verse 18. Where it says For I consider that the sufferings of this present time are not worth comparing with the glory that is to be revealed for us. We will all have to answer that question, is it worth it? But Paul answered it for himself. And I think it's pretty good advice when he says, There's no comparison. We cannot even begin to compare the glory that is to be revealed with the present sufferings, the glory outweighs at all, it is most certainly worth it. And when is the right time to become a Christian? When is the right time? In Second Corinthians six and verse two says, Behold, now is the favorable time, behold, now is the day of salvation. Should we put off what we can do now to become a Christian, a child of God? Is that something we should delay? Well, again, we don't need to rush into it, we need to seriously weigh the decision we're making. We need to be convicted in in the truth of the gospel mess. But once we reach that point, we need to act. When we make that decision, we need to act. When is the right time to become a Christian? The right time is now the right time is NOW those are some important questions for anyone that would consider whether they should become a Christian or not. So we've talked about some of those decisions. And we're going to be singing an invitation song in here. And just a moment to believe the gospel message we talked about baptism. And it's interesting that he asked what should what would prevent me from being baptized? That's kind of the final step in this process of conversion. Now, it's not the final thing to do. It's a lifelong commitment. But he says, What would prevent me from being baptized? Baptism is a public confession in a sense of public confession before all that I have thrown my lot with Jesus Christ. And that's based upon my belief that Jesus is the Christ, my confession that I'll freely confess before of repenting of sins and turning away from that, and now I'm being baptized as a public state, that I am a child of God. And so that's an opportunity that we all have if we've not made that step. If you are a Christian and not living as you should, you need to understand that being a Christian is a lifelong commitment. And if you're not honoring that, as you should, this church would be happy to pray with you or for you, or do whatever we can for. There's any subject to the invitation. Please come as we stand in scene at this time.


Transcribed by https://otter.ai