Good morning. Certainly good to see everyone here today. It's good that we can come and worship our God. We have a lot of visitors here with us. We're thankful for your presence, glad that you could be here with us. And trust everyone had a good holiday weekend, able to spend some time maybe with, with family or to have some good food. It's been a good weekend for us. And I hope it has been for you as well. We live busy lives, don't we very busy wives. Sometimes we try to wrangle the chaos. That's our lives. And we make lists. Some people are more or less makers and others. And so we make lists to be able to know this is what I need to get done today. Sometimes we resort to sticky notes. Maybe this is not so much something you write out as this is just a picture of your mind at any given time during the week, I need to do this, I need to work out I need to run and get this I need to help with the kids schoolwork, there's so much I need to do. And if you're a mom with a child under two, you have to double that don't shoot. And with a big poster that says take a nap, you probably have to throw some spit up on all that as well. We live busy lives, there's so much that we have to do one thing that needs to be on our list. And one thing that we often forget, is to say thanks. We need to be people that remember to say things that should be at the top of the list. But sadly, it's often jumbled up in that list of things that we have to do. And it's another checklist item, I need to say thanks. I'd like to consider just a few moments this morning. Exam example in Luke chapter 17, of one man that did remember to give thanks, and Luke 17. And I'll begin by simply reading this passage. This is when Jesus cleanses 10 lepers. Luke 17 In verse 11, on the way to Jerusalem, he was passing along between Samaria and Galilee. And as he entered the village, he was met by 10 lepers who stood at a distance, and lifted up their voice saying, Jesus master Have mercy on us. When he saw them, he said, Go and show yourself to the priests. And as they went, they were cleansed. Then one of them when he saw that he was healed, turned back, praising God with a loud voice, and he fell on his face at Jesus feet, giving him thanks. Now he was a Samaritan. Then Jesus answered, we're not 10 cleansed, where are the non Was no one found to return and give praise to God except this foreigner. He said to him, Rise and go your way. Your faith has made you well. Notice that Jesus was traveling that's often what he's doing through the Gospels. He was on his way to Jerusalem, and he was passing by in between a Galilee and Samaria and he came upon a small village. Now often when we see Jesus traveling, we see many people wanting to be Hilde, don't they? And they are pressing up against him. They are crowding him. They are imploring and begging. But here we see something quite different only. These men are not pressing up against Jesus. The text says that they stood at a distance, I stood at a distance, and the reason for that is the nature of their affliction. They were lepers, lepers. Leprosy is an infectious skin disease marked by white spots, scabs raw flesh, it was highly contagious. And so those that were lepers had to isolate themselves. They had to wear masks before we even thought about all this mass business. They had to cover themselves, and they had to stay away in isolation. And Luke 13 And verse 44, talks about what a leprous person should do and Luke 13 Verse 45, it says, The lepers person who has the disease shall wear torn clothes, and let the hair of his head hang loose. And he shall cover his upper lip and cry out, Unclean, unclean. He shall remain unclean. As long as he has the disease, he is unclean, he shall live alone, his dwelling shall be outside the care. Now we've felt some frustrations of isolation and maybe some frustrations of sickness and infectious disease. But it's even with that I think it's difficult to place ourselves to imagine what it would be like to be a leper. They had to wear torn clothes, their hair was disheveled. They had to cover their face in the presence of others, and shout out Unclean, unclean. The Psychology of all, that must have been a burden. Not only that, but they had to stay outside the camp, they had to stay away from everyone else. And they would have had to leave family, friends, any others that were inside the camp, it's difficult to imagine exactly what they endured. But notice what Jesus does for these leprous men. Jesus simply tells them to go and show themselves to the priests. And it says, And as they went, they were cleansed. Let's just pause for a moment here and think about and recognize the mighty power of Jesus Christ. He said to go, and as they went, they were heal. There's no big fanfare, there's nothing he had to do, the power was there and he healed these men. He healed them as they went to the priests, the show themselves and the old law in order to show that you had recovered from this affliction, you would have to show yourselves to the priests. And so as they head there, they are afflicted, but on the way they are cleanse, and they'll be able to show themselves to the priest. Well, the text says that one man turned back, and he praised God with a loud voice. And he fell on his face at Jesus feet. And he gave thinks he had been cleansed. And he remembered to say, Thanks, he remembered to say, thanks. That's what we find about the one. But what about the nine? You know, there's really no mention in the text at all anymore about the nine. Where are they? What are they doing? In fact, the only mention we find is Jesus question where are the nine? Did not cleanse 10? Why is only one return? Where are the nine? Well, the nine are found throughout Scripture aren't we find many examples of those that are ungrateful, that do not say thanks. We find that among the Israelites in First Corinthians 10 And verse 10, and refers back to those that grumbled and complain. The wilderness was a time of testing for the Israelites. Jesus tested them it was a difficult place. But throughout all of that difficulty, Jesus or excuse me, God provided for them didn't. He gave them everything they need. And yet along the way, they grumbled, and they complain, and instead of focusing on what God had provided, they focused on what they were missing. And so they were complainer's complainants. We find that the nine are found with the ungodly in Romans one. Paul talks about the fact that all are considered and deemed unrighteous. And in Romans one, he points out that the wrath of God is revealed against those that are unrighteous and ungodly, he says, notice how he describes them in verse 21. For although they knew God, they did not honor Him as God or give Him thanks. but they became futile in their thinking and their foolish hearts were darkened. In some ways, forgetting to say thanks is an easy thing to do. But, but this passage paints the picture of those that that are dishonouring god, they're their thoughts and their minds are feudal, they're dark, and it is not just a task that they forgot, but it is a picture of their character, as they have turned away from the living God, and so the nine are found with the ungodly. We also find that the nine are described in the times of difficulty in First Timothy three in the first five verses there, Paul says, But understand this that in the last days, there will come times of difficulty and then he provides a long list. Among that list are those that are on grateful, ungrateful. They did not say things, and they were not appreciative, and the ungrateful are listed among those who are lovers of self. Those that are arrogant, unholy, heartless, disobedient, Since the list again is another grim picture. And so we see the associations with those that are ungrateful. Those that are not thankful. We find the nine in many places in scripture. But I like we also find the nine in everyday life don't we find the nine in everyday life? I can only imagine what went through the minds of the healed lepers. Their lives had been turned upside down with this disease and affliction. There was so much that they couldn't do there was so much that they were missing out. Can you imagine the thoughts that were going through their head? Well, I need to get some new clothes. All I had was torn clothes. Like a bath after all of this sickness, like a haircut, I have to have my hair disheveled a man presentable, I'm away from society. I can only imagine that they wanted to see their family and friends. We don't know how long they had been away from family and friends. We've taken the time many of us together with family this weekend. And that's a great thing to see family, isn't it? Imagine a prolonged period without seeing your family. Yes, their to do list must have been extremely lengthy. They might have considered business opportunities, social engagements again, you think about all the facets of life they had missed out on that. If you're socially isolated, you can't go on in business you can't carry on your trade you can't do many of the things that I'm sure they were thinking that's what I need to do. They would have been busy planning I think their new life and when you get busy, it's easy to forget things, isn't it? So where are the nine well the nine are among the busy. The preoccupied preoccupied the thoughtless, the in attendance. And, you know if we have to be honest, the non is up here speaking to you. If I had to guess there's probably a little bit of the nine that I'm speaking to as well. This describes us in so many ways. We are so busy in our lives, we often forget to say thanks, reminder, the little boy as it gets, he forgets to say the prayer. Why does he forget to say the prayer before aids, because he's so hungry. He's ready to eat. When we get older, we forget to say thanks because we are preoccupied. And it's easy to see this list as a description of ourselves. Busy preoccupied. And when you're so busy, you can't think of everything. That's why we try to make lists and wrangle the chaos. Were in attentive to every detail that we should be, where are the nine? Far too often the nine are found right here among us. So let us well, let's look at the one. What about the one? I think the text provides some helpful reminders how we can be people that remember to say thanks. Let's notice a few things. First of all, he took the time, he took the time. As one might say there's only so many hours in the day, but all of us have the same amount of time. The difference is what we take the time to do. And this man it says that he he stopped and he turned back. He turned back. He took the time to remember what had been done for him. When he was healed. His life was changed the same way that the others were. And I have no doubt that he had the same list of to do items on his mind. He needed to do all those things that the others did. But it says that he when he was healed, he turned back. He took the time. He turned away from his To Do List to give things and that's something that we need to do. He also recognized the source of his blessings, he realized that he hadn't healed himself. He realized that the blessing did not come from himself but rather it says that he turned back and he was praising God with a loud voice. There is no sheepish Ness here. There is no Quietness or hiding attempt that what he was saying. He did it with a loud voice Praise be to God. He is the source of my blessing. And so he recognized that source. He humbled Himself When he turned back and it says that he prays God with a loud voice, what else does it say? Says he fell upon his face. Now that is not a posture of arrogance isn't. Now that's a posture of humility. He fell on his face at the feet of Jesus. And he recognized what he had done, and he gave thanks. And so he humbled himself. Humility and thankfulness go hand in hand. And on the flip side of that arrogance, and ungratefulness go hand in hand, don't they? But this man was humble. He lowered himself, he prostrated himself. And he said, Thanks, he said, thanks. We also say that he was a man of faith and verse 19, of this passage, Jesus told him Rise and go your way Your faith has made you well, your faith has made you well. Faithfulness, faith in God, trust in God and thankfulness go hand in hand as well. And so we see that this man, thanks, Jesus. And Jesus recognized his faith, his character, his trust, in God, he was a man of faith. And as we look through this list, we say I can imitate all of that, that's what I need to do. There's one other indication that we don't necessarily have to imitate, but I think it's stated in the text for good reason. And that is that he was a Samaritan is going through this story. And almost right in the middle, it says, now he was a Samaritan, I just want to remind you, and even Jesus says, Where are the nah, is not the only one that come back, this foreigner and he describes him as this foreigner, point of the text, it's not that we need to be a foreigner. But in the New Testament, at this time, the Samaritans were despised as those outside the covenant of God, they were on the outside the faithful community of Israel, those were the ones that were considered to be of the faith of the faith, we find that that likely these were Jews. In fact, Jesus says, Go show yourself to the priests and that would have been a according to the Jewish law. And so my guess is the rest of these were Jews. And it was this outsider that said, thanks. You know, sometimes arrogance is found most inside the church because we're the say, We're the ones doing what we should we came here today. But here, Jesus, in pointed fashion, said, this individual that is outside is the man that has displayed great faith. So I'm gonna just warn you, being a member of the church is something we need to do. But it's not something that cures everything. It's not an an automatic disposal of the kind of character that we need to have. So let us not become arrogant saying I'm part of the people of God, therefore, I must be right. Now Jesus says this man was a foreign and he was a Samaritan. Well, let me look at one other thing. And that is I think we need to give thanks, like a leper. Give thanks like, Thanksgiving, as we started, we had all these jumbled thoughts, or maybe this list of things to do. And there was one that said give thinks, I'd like to tell you that giving thanks needs to be more than a daily checklist items, simply say that I've done that. And having said that, it wouldn't be a bad checklist item either. To have a daily time to say things. But that's not all that it is. We need to develop thankful hearts. We need to develop the kind of character where Thankfulness is a part of our entire approach to life, our our mindset, the way that we live. In First Thessalonians five, verse 17, it says, Give thanks in all circumstances, for this as the will of God in Christ Jesus for you. And so we need to give thanks in all circumstances, and I thought about this leper. This is a little bit of supposition if you'll allow me we don't know much about this letter before but if I had to guess, I would say that this is not the first time that he said things. I don't know what he did before. But if I had to guess I would say in times of trials and sickness and difficulties, he was still saying thanks. And whether you think that's true or not, the truth of the matter is we need to be thankful people even in difficult times, even in the midst of trying, when we are sick and facing challenges, it can be extremely difficult during those times to give thanks because we are so focused on our problem. And it's hard to see all the many blessings that are there. Besides, you know, one of the great things about writing the sermon during this time is Facebook just gives you so much material. I saw an illustration I wanted to give to you. And I found on Facebook this last week, this person had made a list of things they were thankful for. She said I would assume it's a she grateful for early wakeups. Because there are children to love. Grateful for a house to clean, because I have a safe place to live. Grateful for laundry, because I have clothes to wear. Grateful for dishes to wash, because that means I have food to eat. Grateful for crumbs under the table. Because that means I have family meals. Grateful for grocery shopping, because I have money to buy food. Grateful for toilets to clean, because I have indoor plumbing. Grateful for lots of noise. Because that points to the people in my life. Grateful for endless questions about homework, because that means my kids brains are growing. Grateful for being sore and tired in bed. Because I'm still a lot. We need to change our focus from time to time or maybe many times. There are a lot of first world problems we have there are a lot of difficulties we we face in this life. I don't want to minimize that. But often there are blessings. Maybe I could say always. There are blessings tied up for wrapped up within the challenges and difficulties that we face. We need to be a thankful people. In Philippians four and verse six it says do not be anxious about anything. but in everything by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving, let your requests be made known to God. And the peace of God, which surpasses all understanding will guard your hearts and your minds in Christ Jesus. Gratitude is an attitude, not just a checklist. It is a choice about what we choose to focus on where we will put our minds. And for the Christian it's an essential part of our character. It's not an optional item. Nice to have but not needed. No, it's essential. Christians are grateful people, thankful people. And so should we be? Well, not only should we be a thankful person in times of difficulty and challenge, but we also need to be a thankful person in times of prosperity and healing. And it may be even more difficult during this time because we are so busy. And there are so many things to do. And I think the leper illustrates that. As the nine lepers can show it can be difficult to give thanks in good times. It's easy to become involved in our daily lives. It's easy to take things for granted. After all, we've always had air to breathe. I've always had food to eat water to drink. I've always had clothes to wear. Why would I expect anything else? Why should it be any different today? Of course, I have those things. That's the definition of taking things for granted. I just assume that those are there. And we forget that those are blessings. In the Sermon on the Mount, Jesus reminded his listeners that God provides daily we don't need to worry about all these things God provides the provides for the birds, the air, provides for the flowers of the field. And he provides for you and for me. And in Matthew six when Jesus taught His disciples to pray, one of the items that he listed is thank you for our daily bread. We may always have food but let us not forget it's a blessing. It's a blessing. There are many people that don't have food or as much as they like or what the quantity that they would like. But what we see in Matthew chapter six is that God provides We need to be thankful for our blessings. In Psalm 103, it says, Bless the Lord, oh my soul and all that is within me, bless His holy name. Bless the Lord, oh my soul and forget not all His benefits. Do not forget what God has done for you. I think one of the greatest challenging songs that we sing is Count your many blessings. What a challenge that is. Can we even do that they're in their reward thing. There are too many to count. And so we often just give up and don't even try. But God has blessed us in innumerable ways. Let us not forget all of his benefits. Let us remember to say thinks, do not take lightly and dismiss or forget all that God has done for you. Far too often, we're like the nine but let us strive to do better. And be like the Samaritan leper who was filled with gratitude. And he said, thanks. There's many things that we can say thank you for. But as a Christian, the greatest blessing that we have is, is found in cross mess, forgiveness of sins. And if you're here this morning, and you're not a Christian, you're missing out on one of the greatest blessings that you could ever know, to be a child of God and to have your sins washed away. Now, if you're not a Christian, you have an opportunity to obey the gospel message. And the gospel message is that Jesus Christ died on the cross for you. You must believe that Jesus is the Christ, repent of your sins and turn away from that and turn toward God. You must confess that Jesus is the Christ and be baptized in the water for forgiveness of your sins. If you would do that you can be a child of God, and you can go along your way praising and thanking him. If you're here this morning, and you are a Christian, but you're not living as you should you're living in sin or you're struggling with things. This group wants to pray with you and for you, and we'll do whatever we can to lift you up. There's any subject to limitation at this time. Please come as we stand insane


Transcribed by https://otter.ai