Good morning. It's good to see everyone here today. And I guess I should add a happy new year. It is a new year. This is the first Sunday of the year. And I'm sure we're aware that the calendar has turned I found myself making that old person comment, I can't believe I can't believe it's already this time of year again, I can't believe it's 2022. Time certainly marches on. And so we see another year is upon us. When I was younger, I was probably about 10 years old, my parents, I had a rededication ceremony. So it was a little confusing to me. They were already married, I didn't know why they needed to get married again. But we all dressed up and I got some cake. So that was fine. As I got older, though, I realized that they were re committing themselves to each other. I heard one time at a wedding. You know, sometimes you give advice. And one of the advice that this person gave the the groom was always date, your wife, always date your wife. In a marriage. I don't say things can get stale. But we can take things for granted. When we've committed ourselves when we live day in and day out. It can be maybe not what it should always be. So we have to keep things fresh. And we have to remember why we marry this person and show them our love on a similar way. And then even to a greater degree. We find that in our relationship with God, we need to stay fresh, we need to remember why we've made the commitment to God that we may. And sometimes we simply need a renewed commitment, a renewed commitment. If you are a Christian, you understand what it means to be, be committed. To be a Christian is to be committed. In fact, when we became a Christian, we committed our entire lives our entire being to God. Paul describes this process of devotion and conversion as putting off your old self which belongs to your former manner of life, and is corrupt through deceitful desires, and to be renewed in the spirit of your minds and to put on the new self created after the likeness of God and true righteousness and holiness. And that's found in Ephesians 422 to 24. Notice that there is a former way of living where we were committed to ourselves, and we lived in selfishness and sin, but were to put that away to put that man to death. And we are to be a new man. Notice the text says that we are to be renewed in the spirit of our minds. And certainly we do that when we become Christians. Romans 12 makes it even clearer that we are to not be conformed to the world, but we are to be transformed. And it says by the renewal or the renewing of your mind. And so we see this need for continual renew continual emphasis upon renewing our mind so that we would stay committed to Him. And Matthew 16 and verse 24, Jesus describes commitment this way. He says, If anyone would come after Me, let him deny himself, and take up his cross and follow Me. Notice the three things that Jesus says, if were to follow Him and be a disciple, then we must first of all deny ourselves, deny ourselves, put ourselves on the back burner. We are not the top priority. We're to not deny ourselves and we are to take up our crawls. And so when we take up our cross, we realize that putting God first comes with consequences, and difficulties and challenges. And yet, that is our aim. And thirdly, we follow Him. To be a Christian is to be committed, it is to be committed, and those who are unwilling to commit are simply unfit to be disciples. In fact, when Jesus in Luke chapter nine, he said, Follow me. And one of the men that he said that to him to said this, I will follow You, Lord, but let me first say farewell to those at my home. Jesus had this to say No one who puts his hand to the plow and looks back is fit for the kingdom of God. Discipleship demands, that one makes the supreme commitment of their lives we are to be committed. And that includes a lifelong commitment. When husbands and wives marry, they often say these words till death do us part. We're making a commitment that is lifelong. It's not intended to be temporary. This is not for two years do we commit, but it is life. And for life. Being a Christian is a similar commitment. It is a lifelong commitment. Paul said in Philippians, one in verse 21, for me to live is Christ and to die is game. Our lives are to be service and devotion to Him until the day that we die, at which time we will receive our ward. And so Paul says that that is gained to him to die is gain. And that points us to the fact that being a Christian requires a lifelong commitment. At the end of his life, he would say this in Second Timothy four in verse seven, I have fought the good fight, I have finished the race, I have kept the faith, to be a Christian is to be committed for life. And so that requires endurance, and criers persistence, being a Christian is a lifelong affair. So I'll simply say again, it's not meant to be momentary. Being a Christian is not intended to be something we try out, or it's a fad, or something that is some of them where we take breaks or vacations. You know, some subscription services will advertise and these terms cancel anytime you want. And you can simply come back. And then you can cancel anytime that you want, or being a Christian is not like that. It's not intended to be something that we cancel anytime we want. And maybe we come back when we need it. And then we leave when things are good. Being a Christian is a lifelong commitment. And so when we look in the scriptures, we see several characteristics that point us to this idea of the lifelong commitment. We see character traits like persistence, endurance, patience is sometimes related to that in juris faithfulness. And James one in verse 12, it says, Blessed is the man who remains steadfast under trial, for when he has stood the test he will receive the crown of life which God has promised to those who love Him. Notice that we are to remain as Christian steadfast, even in the midst of trials and persecution, or maybe I should say, especially in the midst of trials and persecution, to remain steadfast to be persistence. Galatians six and verse nine says, Let us not become weary in doing good for at the proper time, we will reap a harvest if we do not give up. Being a Christian means that we are to stay committed, keep going, run the race, and you're the trials. But I think these admonitions also reveal something else. And that is that it is a great challenge. And it can be a great difficulty to remain committed. There is a challenge of being consistent. It's difficult to have a singular mind at all times, isn't it? It can be a challenge to maintain a high level of faith day in and day out every single day through all phases of life. Now we realize that we have moves. We have doubts, frustrations, we encounter trials, we have times of inattentiveness, we're simply not focused. We're not paying attention as we should. We have times of selfishness. And sometimes we simply outright live our own way and sin against God. And so there can be a great challenge to being a lifelong committed Christian. And so for that reason, I think we need renewal from time to time. We need to be refreshed and recommit and we need to be reminded of what is truly important. We need to remind ourselves why we made the decision to be a Christian in the first place. And we need to make a new the same commitment that we made before. We need renewal don't wait. We need to be strengthened in our faith. Well consider a few times when we may need to renew our commitments. The first one we might consider is when there is simply a new beginning, a new beginning. Sometimes a change in scenery or life circumstances can cause one to be retrospective, to reevaluate what is important times like when when a couple becomes engaged, or maybe they become married they, they say we want to start off the right way. And they focus on what is good and important. Or when a couple has a new child, it's a new beginning, they want to get back to doing things the right way. It could be something like taking a new job, moving to a new city. All these things are a new beginning. Or it may be simply that the calendar has turned and that is a new year. And so we find that that's a convenient time to renew ourselves to remake recommit ourselves. They've brought up the fact that when the Israelites fled from Egypt, and they escaped that final play, when all the firstborn were put to death, they observed the Passover when they recognized and remember that God passed over and provided protection and safety for that household. And that time was a new year for them when they remembered that important event. The New Year was marked for remembrance, and it can be so for us as well. When we have a new beginning, it can be a good time for us to renew our commitments. You probably guess that's why I'm preaching this lesson, renewed commitments. It may also be simply that we have realized that we are distracted. We are so busy with the many aspects of life that we have become in attendance, we've allowed our devotion to wane. And if that's the case, we need to renew our commitments. When the Israelites wandered in the wilderness, they had let their faithfulness slip to God. So in the book of Joshua, when they come to the promised land before they enter, they, they renew their commitments. In Joshua, chapter five, the text says that they observe the Passover, and they practice circumcision. And these were things that they were not regularly doing in the wilderness. They had allowed their attention to wane. They had become distracted with what they were doing. And they had failed to give God the glory. In the parable of the sower, we see that there was seed that was sown among the thorns. And those that were sown among the thorns were threatened by the cares of the world, and the deceitfulness of riches. And the text says that those things choke out the word. We can be like that soil. Our hearts can be distracted by the cares of the world, and the deceitfulness of riches. These things, ruin disciples. So let that not happen to us. Let us not be distracted. And if we are, let's renew our commitment. It may be that we're facing challenges, no, sometimes challenges and difficulties shake us to the core. And they cause us to examine again, our life and our relationship with God. Consider what Paul had to say in Romans chapter five. And starting in verse three. He said, Not only that, but we rejoice in our sufferings, knowing that suffering produces endurance, and endurance produces character and character produces hope. And hope does not put us to shame. Because God's love has been poured into our hearts to the Holy Spirit who has been given to us. challenges in life are not easy to endure. That's what makes them a challenge. That's what makes them difficult. But sometimes challenges can be the best teacher challenges. Challenges can teach us things that we cannot learn at other times in our life. They point us to our frailty and the uncertainty of life, and they point us to our great God. So yes, challenges can be a time for renewed commitments. or it may be that we've lost our zeal. This can be dangerous for the very group that I'm talking to. Most of the people I see here, make it a habit to be at the assembly. And that's a good thing because we can be encouraged here. But there's also a danger for Christians that we simply check the list. We go through the motions. And it may be that we attend services three times a week, we do our Bible lesson. We say our prayers, and we read our scripture. But within all of that our heart is not in it anymore. Our heart is lost. God rebuke the church in Ephesus and Revelation two in verse four, he says, I know you were enduring patiently and bearing up for my namesake and you have not grown weary. They were doing the things they were supposed to. I'm sure they were assembling. They were checking off the list. But notice what he says, But I have this against you that you have abandoned the love you had it first. It's easy to get into a rut isn't. And when we do that, we need to renew our commitment. Because God doesn't want just our bodies that go through the motions. God wants all of us, our hearts, our spirits, our mind, our passion. And so if we've lost our zeal that can be a good time for renewed commitments. It may also be that we have failed in our commitments. We made a commitment when we became a Christian to put away the old self and to put on the new to put away sin and to live holy lives dedicated to God. But as Christians, we may not honor that commitment, always. And we may fail in our commitments. And so that can be an appropriate time, a great time for renewed commitment. In the book of Joshua, we see that the sin of akin brought shame upon the people of Israel and led them to defeat and Joshua seven in verse one it says, but the people of Israel broke faith regarding the devoted things for Jericho, they were not to take anything for themselves. But one man broke the trust of God and the commitment they made akin when he took some things for his own selfish shoes. The sin of Israel led to their defeat, and their hearts melted before a. But when they dealt with that sin, God gave them victory. And at the end of Joshua chapter eight, after they received victory from the people of AI, we see that they committed themselves in a covenant ceremony in Joshua chapter eight. I'd like to just simply read that text now. Joshua, chapter eight verses 3335. At that time, Joshua built an altar to the LORD the God of Israel on Mount evil. Just as Moses the servant of the Lord had commanded the people of Israel, as it is written in the Book of the Law of Moses. An altar of uncut stones upon which no man has Willdan, an iron tool. And they offered on it burn offerings to the Lord and sacrifice peace off rooms. And they're in the presence of the people of Israel. He wrote on the stones, a copy of the Law of Moses, which he had written, and all Israel Sojourner as well as native born with their elders and officers and their judges, stood on opposite sides of the Ark Before the Levitical priests who carry the ark of the covenant of the Lord, half of them in front of Mount gare zoom and half of them in front of Mount evil. Just as Moses the servant of the Lord had commanded at the first to bless the people of Israel. And afterward, he read all the words of the law, the blessing and the curse, according that all that is written in the book of the law. There was not a word of all that Moses commanded that Joshua did not read before all the assembly of Israel and the women and the little ones and the sojourners who lived among them. After the sin of of Aiken, the Israelites here recommitted themselves and they renewed their commitments. And this is what Moses had invited the people to do. The Book of Deuteronomy are the last words of Moses before he dies. And he was concerned with the faithfulness of Israel. And so in Deuteronomy 27th, he tells them when you get into the land, set up stones and write the law upon it and build an altar and sacrifice to the Lord. And remember these Very important, we're. And so that's what they do in Joshua eight, just as Moses instructed, they renew their commitments. And when we find ourselves in sin, we have a choice don't wait. We can even either give up on being a Christian and completely give in to that and turn our backs on God and that will have ultimately disastrous results. Or we can put that sin behind this and make a renewed commitment to God. That is our choice. When David sin with Bathsheba, he acknowledged his sin before Nathan and God and he prayed in Psalm 51 In verse 10, this, create in me a clean heart, O God and renew a right spirit within me. Cast me not away from your presence, and take not your Holy Spirit from me, Restore to me the joy of your salvation, and uphold me with a willing spirit. David made the choice to have a renewed commitment. And that's the right choice. That's the right choice. So there can be a need for renewal and all of these times. So the last point I want to look at is how exactly did they commit themselves here in Joshua, chapter eight? What are the ingredients that they use for renewal? I think maybe we can use some of these same things. So first of all, we see that they worshipped God. They worshipped God. The first thing it says is that Joshua built an altar to the Lord. And upon that offer, they sacrificed sacrifices to him. And so we see that they worshipped Him. renewed commitment starts with a connection to the source of life. If we're to get back to what is truly important, it must begin with God, and a recognition of who he is of his character of his awesome might, and his granddaughter and his glory. When we stand and all of God as we do it, worship that will stir our hearts and move our minds so that we can commit ourselves again, it can lead to a desire for greater commitment. So let's start with the place where they started. And that is worshiping God worshipping God. Not only that, but they were obedient, they were obedient. The text says when they built the altar, they did it just as Moses had commanded. And that's in verse 30. Moses had commanded that they make an altar of uncut stones upon which no man has wielded an iron tool doesn't exactly give the reason for that. But we know that they were not to fashion things that were related to God as they did with idols. And so here they were to take stones uncut. They were not to fashion these stones, but to build an altar and sacrifice to God. And that's what they did. They were obedient. The text says they did exactly what Moses had instruction instructed. Joshua and the Israelites made sure that they obeyed the law, and they fashioned the Ark altar according to the instructions of the Lord. If we're to renew our commandments, we need to be an obedient people. In first Peter one in verse 14, it says, As obedient children, do not be conformed to the passions of your former ignorance, but is he who called you is holy, you also be holy and your conduct or renewed commitments can begin with worship to God and an emphasis upon holy living, imitating the holiness of our God for to renew our commandment than let us be a holy people. You also notice that they practice Community Fellowship, Community Fellowship, and verse 31, it says, And they offered on it burn offerings to the Lord and sacrifice peace offerings. Not only do they have burn offerings, which consume the whole animal and went up to God as a sweet smelling aroma, but the text says that they had peace offerings, Deuteronomy 27 Is that when you have these peace offerings, you're to eat of it, and rejoice before the Lord. Now we can make a commitment by ourselves. If that's all that is there, then we certainly need to make a commitment by ourselves to serve God. But it can be even easier if we'll make a commitment alongside a community of believers, I think that it was easier for the Israelites to make a commitment in the midst of those that were making the same commitments. That's part of the benefit of assembling together as we consider one another so that we provoke the love and stir up within us hearts of service to God. Being here is not a question of do I have to be here or not? It's a matter of renewing our strength. And so we find a desire to be here to worship and encourage one another. We can make a commitment by ourselves, but there is strength in numbers. And when we worship with others and commit our lives to God alongside others, then we can be strengthened and encouraged in our face. Proverbs 27 In verse 17, says iron sharpens iron. so one man sharpens another. So let us sharpen each other. And let us encourage each other as we commit ourselves together. Another thing they did is that they read God's word. No, the elders often, for as long as I can remember, they've been emphasizing that we read God's word on a daily basis. If we're to be strong Christians, it's important that we have a steady diet of what God has to say. You do know the world's give us giving us a steady diet of what they think, don't you? We need to combat that. We need to have a steady diet of gods. We're in verse 31, of Joshua eight, it says in there in the presence of the people of Israel, he wrote on the stones, a copy of the Law of Moses, which had been written in verse 34, it says this, And afterward, he read all the words of the law, the blessings and the curse. According to all that is written in the book of the law. There was not a word of all that Moses commanded that Joshua did not read before all the assembly of Israel, and the women and the little ones and the sojourners who lived among them. God's word is so vital for our strength, that's a great place to, to recognize and honor a renewed commitment to commit ourselves to reading God's Word on a regular basis. And there are many plans that you can try out, I know that norm sent one out and some other people followed up with plans. There's no shortage of plans, I think there's only a shortage of desire. So if that's something you want to do, you can reach out and we can supply any kind of plan that that you might find interesting to keep you in God's word. That's what they did. And that's what we should do is well, God's word can build us up and strengthen us. Last thing that I want to point out that they did is that they recognize the stakes or the consequences. Part of this covenant ceremony involved dividing the Israelite Israelites up so that they were on two mountains, half on one side and half on the other end, they recited among themselves, the blessings of the law, and the curses of the law. They remembered what was truly at stake. If they are obedience, it means life for them, blessings in the land, and they will have all the good things of life. But if they disobeyed God, it would mean a reversal of God's blessings, so that they would have only curses. They would not have life in the land, but they would face death, sickness and pain, and worst of all, and a strange relationship from God. Yes, they needed to recognize the stakes. Sometimes when we renew our commitment to the Lord, we have to remind ourselves as well, of what truly is at stake. It is a matter of life and death. We don't think in those terms, because we think so physically sometimes. But being a Christian and honoring God is a matter of life and death. In Second Corinthians five and verse one, Paul said this, For we know that if the tent that is our earthly home is destroyed, we have a building from God, a house not made with hands eternal in the heavens, for in this tent, we groan, longing to be put on our heavenly dwelling. I love this attitude in the spirit he recognized that this earthly vessel our bodies, this is not our true home, our home is in heaven. But notice his attitude about that He says, When I think about heaven, when I think about my destination, then it causes me to groan, longing for. You see, it's deep within his soul and his heart that he wants to go and be with God. And if we're to renew our commitment to him, we need to remind ourselves of that same thing. The point of this life is to get to heaven to be with God. And if we've missed heaven, is the moment always used to say we've missed it all. That is the point. That is the point. That is what we are striving for. But if we disobey and live in rebellion to God, let us not forget the statement of Hebrews 12, verse 29. For our God is a consuming fire. For as loving and forgiving, and carne does God is, and he wants us all to be saved and come to Him. If we turn our backs on him, he is a consuming fire. And we do not want to fall into the hands of the living God. We will be consumed in judgment if we turn our backs on him. Matthew 16, in verse 26, Jesus asked the poignant question, for what will it profit a man if he gains the whole world and forfeits his soul? Or what shall a man give in return? For sole? So anything that we can exchange? Is there anything of value that we could heap upon the scales and place our soul on the other side? And it would be more important? No, there is not. No, there is not? Well, that's the lesson this morning. And so I'll just conclude with this question. Do you need to renew your commitment to the Lord. That's something we all need to do. From time to time in the new year is as good a time as any. Let's all together, renew our commitment, dedicate ourselves a new and serve God to the best of our ability. If you're here this morning, and you're not a Christian, you have an opportunity to begin that that commitment. Begin your walk with Him by believing that Jesus is the Christ repenting of your sins and being baptized into water for for the forgiveness of your sins. Once you do that, you start the Christian life, that lifelong commitment. And as I mentioned, if you are a Christian, but you're not living as you should make a renewed commitment today. There's any subject to the invitation. Please come as we stand and sing at this time.


Transcribed by https://otter.ai