Conrad Harkrider  00:00
Good morning. If you want to take your Bibles and open up to First Corinthians chapter three. One of the most nerve wracking experience experiences for a young person is when you meet your significant others parents or family for the very first time, I remember after I had been dating my now wife, for about a year, we invited her up to Colorado where my extended family lived, so that she can meet my grandparents, my aunts and uncles, all of my cousins. And before she came, I was talking with my aunts, and they were asking me all these questions. And they were saying, well tell us what she's like, tell us what type of person she is. And I didn't really know how to answer that or what to say. I didn't want to say the wrong thing. And so I basically just said, well, she's a lot like the two of you. Except she's much younger and prettier. But before she came up for the trip, I told my wife, my girlfriend, I said, Now, my family is very nice. But they're also very big on first impressions. So no pressure here. But she did. She did great. And they quickly saw all the things that I that had attracted me to her. But that's an interesting question. What type of person is this? How would you describe yourself? Or maybe more importantly, how would others describe you? In first Corinthians chapter three, Paul, is talking about different types of people. And he basically breaks them down into two different categories. He says that there are those who are of a spiritual nature. And there are those who are carnal, or who are of a physical nature. And so that's what I'd like for us to think about this morning for just a few moments, the spiritual versus the physical Read with me in First Corinthians Chapter One beginning in verse, or first Corinthians chapter three, beginning in verse one. It says, And I, brethren, could not speak to you as to spiritual people, but as to carnal, as to babes in Christ. I fed you with milk and not solid food, for until now you were not able to receive it. And even now, you are still not able, for you are still carnal. For where there are envy, strife, and divisions among you. Are you not carnal and behaving like mere men? For when one says, I am of Paul and another I am of a polis? Are you not carnal? Did you notice the two groups, they're in verse one, he says, that he could not speak to them as spiritual people. And then he says that instead they are carnal. They are people of the flesh. Those who are of the flesh, he says that they are physical they are he describes them as infants, or babes, this speaks to their level of maturity, they are immature infants are about as immature as you can be. They can't walk or talk, they can't even hold up their own heads. They have to eat certain, they can only eat certain things. They can only be fed milk and a certain type of milk. At that when I was younger, before we had kids, my wife and I went to babysit for another family. And they were going through all the lists of things that we needed to know and the wife said that the baby did not like her passie that every time you tried to put the pacifier in she would spit it out. And she was just letting us know that that's how she was. And I suggested a great idea. I said, Well, why don't you just put a little honey on the tip of that thing and put it into her mouth. And the mom said you can't give honey to babies. You could make them sick or it could kill them. I'm thinking to myself, are you sure you want me to wash your kids for you? Apparently, there's a lot of stuff that I don't know about that I have to learn. But babies, they can't just eat anything that you give them. Their system is not is not ready for that. And so Paul says that he had to feed the Corinthians. With just milk. They weren't ready to receive it. Verse two. In verse three, he says that they are still carnal, they're still of the flesh. How did Paul know that? Well, he says it's because of their actions. They were being consumed by this jealousy and strife. They were divided with one another. Have you ever seen two siblings get into an argument? I know it's a rare occurrence. No, this is something that comes up often weekly, possibly even daily. He took that from me. She's playing with my toys. Why did they get to have one of those? So that's a part of adolescence. But Paul's not speaking to little boys and girls here. He's talking with men and women. And he says that they are still acting this way. Verse three, they were behaving like mere men. They're acting in a human way, like ordinary people of the world. They had be come divided with one another. They had Krait created these separate groups, among their their Christian family. One was saying, Well, I follow Paul, and another was saying, Well, no, I am following apologists. And this goes back to the person that taught them about the gospel almost in a prideful way. You can imagine them saying, Well, I was baptized by the apostle Paul himself. In first Corinthians chapter one and verse 17, Paul says that Christ didn't send him to baptized, his purpose wasn't to come to them to try to create a following for himself. But instead, his focus was on preaching the gospel. So we see the problem here, they're walking according to the flesh, their focus was on the physical. They were focused on the things of the flesh. This is such a difficult contrast and concept for us to wrestle with. Because we are living in a physical world. Our bodies are made up of flesh and blood, we have physical desires, and appetites. If we don't eat for a few hours, our stomachs begin to remind us that it's time for another meal. But yet God calls us to live in a different way to be spiritual people, to walk according to the Spirit, Jesus said it this way, in regards to our spiritual nature. He said, Matthew chapter four and verse four, Man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word that comes from the mouth of God. Jesus is clearly saying that life is more than what we put into our mouths, that our life is more than what the clothes that we wear, on our bodies. It is God who sustains us and gives us life. To be spiritual people means that we look beyond the physical day to day needs of the body, that there's more to life than what we see, with our eyes. Even atheists, even those who have no belief in a higher power, or in a God, even they acknowledge that there is more to life than what we see, with our eyes. They appeal to a standard of morals, things like fairness, and justice, respect, and equality. If all we are is a bunch of molecules that have randomly come together and have evolved over billions of years, then why does it matter if we treat other people with respect? Why does it matter if we acknowledge diversity, and treat people with dignity? All of us are innately looking towards some type of higher standard. That's a spiritual aspect to each one of us. And that's what exactly what we find in the pages of God's Word. God enlightens us. He helps clarify our understanding helps us to know what this life is all about. It's more than the physical. It's more than the flesh. In Romans chapter eight, Paul contrasts the spirit and the flesh. And he says in Romans chapter eight and verse five, for those who live according to the flesh set their mind on the things of the flesh. But those who live according to the spirits set their minds on the things of the Spirit, there is a difference between the fleshly and the spiritual. And Paul says, that is found in the way that we think, where do we set our minds? Where is our focus? Where do we put our thoughts and our hearts? Is it solely focused on this world? Is it solely centered on the things that are here and now and if it is, that has a direct impact on our actions, and our behavior? Continuing on in Romans chapter eight, Paul says, in verse seven, for the mind that is set on the flesh is hostile to God for it does not submit to God's law. Indeed, it cannot. Those who are in the flesh cannot, please God. When the mind is focused on the flesh, he says that we cannot submit to God's laws covetousness, greed, pride, lust, those are all symptoms of a mind that is centered on the flesh. In Colossians, chapter three and verse one, Paul says, if then you have been raised with Christ, seek those things which are above where Christ is seated at the right hand of God, set your mind on the things that are above and not on things that are on the earth, you see that again, the two alternatives, we can either set our mind on things above, or to focus on earthly things, we can either see the world through spiritual eyes, or we can view it with eyes of the flesh. With our remaining time, I want to look at four different applications of this if we are walking in the Spirit, if we are living with a spiritual mindset, that's going to change our perspective on a number of different things, compared to if we are walking according to the flesh. So first of all, this has implications for how we see other people. When we are walking in a spiritual way, it impacts how we see other people. When a person walks into the room, what do you see? What's the first thing that you notice? You see their their stature? Are they big or small? You might notice their complexion? How? What's the color of their hair, the tone of their skin? You might look at their facial features, do they have a beard? Are they wearing makeup? Do they have sunglasses on? If you know the person you might think, have they gotten a haircut recently, you look at the clothes that they're wearing. And some of you might be able to know exactly where they got that dress or that shirt. But there's all of these physical things that we're taking note of that we're that we're looking at, we're seeing with our eyes. We're not always told about the physical traits of the people that we read about in the scriptures. We know that Esau was Harry, the Bible says that Rebecca was very beautiful. And in First Samuel chapter 10, and verse 23. It says the King Saul was taller than all of the other people from his shoulders upward. In a society where stature and size was so important. Think about Goliath, who used to go out and intimidate opposing armies with his great size, saw look the part of a king he looked like someone that you would want to follow in to battle. Of course, we know from his life, that his character did not measure up to his stature. And when Samuel goes to select the next king over Israel, he goes to the house of Jesse and he's looking at all of Jesse's sons, and he's thinking, Well, surely this one is the the next king over God's people. And God reminds him not to look at their size or their stature. He says that the Lord does not see as man sees man looks at the appearance, but the Lord looks at the heart. The Lord sees the inside of a person. And that's the challenge for us to look past the outward features and instead, look at the heart You think about when you look at people, what do you see? What are you focused on? Do we only think about what our eyes are showing us, I had a friend that came and picked me up from the airport. One time, it was somebody I hadn't seen in a couple of years. And I noticed that he was driving a different truck. And I saw that he was growing his goatee out. And I was trying to figure out if he was losing any of his hair, and if he had gained any weight, and all these things that I'm picking up on, as, as I see him for the verse the first time. But you know, what I wasn't thinking about the fact that he had left work early to come and get me that his house was 40 minutes away from the airport, I wasn't thinking about the, the fact that he had a family, that he was a father, that he was a deacon, that he had all of these responsibilities, I was just looking at all of the physical things that I could see, you get my point, we get caught up in the physical world and affects how we see other people, we begin to reduce them down to their physical appearance. That's all they are to us. It's just a body of flesh. And we forget about who they really are in March chapter six, and verse 34, speaking of Jesus, it says, when he went ashore, he saw a great crowd. And he had compassion on them, because they were like sheep without a shepherd. And he began to teach them many things. When Jesus saw the crowd, it says that he cared about them, that he had compassion for them that he saw their needs. It says they were like sheep, without a shepherd. It doesn't mean that they didn't know their way back home, that Jesus needed to give them directions on their way. But rather, they had no one to guide them spiritually. They have no one to show them God's ways. And so notice what Jesus does, he begins to teach them many things. So it is for us, we need to look beyond the external and to see people with compassion, and empathy, people who are wandering and loss as a soul, that's a need of God's grace. Well, this also affects this idea of spiritual versus physical, it also affects how we view the church. How do we see the Church and its role? What is the purpose of the church? Why does the church even exist? What is the mission of the church? Is it a physical mission? Or is it one of a spiritual nature, there are a lot of physical needs. In the world today, you start making a list of things that are, are affecting people in the world hunger and homelessness. We see natural disasters, there's disease, there's illness, there's a great need for people to be educated, there's a need for recreation, people have addictions, people have marriage troubles. There are children that need to be adopted or placed in foster care. There's also things that affect our community like policing, and fire service or emergency services, we start to look at all those needs. And we ask the question, Will should the church be involved or responsible for helping with any of those? You start to make a list of all the physical things. It's almost like the list just keeps going, and going and going. Where do you cut it off? Does the church have an obligation to be a second harvest? Should the church operate like an American Red Cross? Or should it be a Vanderbilt Medical University? Should it allow people to come in and treat whatever they be maybe suffering from? When Jesus was on trial before Pilate and he was asked to make a defense for himself? This is what he said in John chapter 18 And verse 36. He said, My kingdom is not of this world. If my kingdom were of this world, my servants would have been fighting that I may have been delivered or not had been delivered over to the Jews, but my kingdom is not from this world. Jesus says, My kingdom is not from here. In other words, I'm not a political or military threat to Caesar. I'm not trying to take the rule from new pilots because my kingdom is of a different nature. Jesus came to conquer the hearts of people by teaching them the truth about God. Jesus died on the cross, not to alleviate alleviate physical suffering, but to save people from their sins. Notice the last thing recorded in mass Matthew's Gospel, just as Jesus is getting ready to go back to heaven, the final thing that he wants to leave his disciples with that that most potent reminder of what should be in their minds as they're going to go forward, he tells them to go there for and clean up the streets. Go therefore, and secure equality for all people. Go there for and clean up or get rid of all the drug use in the world. Now, he says, Go therefore, and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father of the Son and the Holy Spirit, teaching them to observe all that I have commanded you. And behold, I am with you always to the, to the end of the age, make disciples, teach people, teach them about God and what it is that God wants them to do. We see this again and again in Paul's life. As he would go from city to city, he was focused on spreading the word he was trying to persuade people convinced people that Jesus was the Son of God in Acts chapter 24, when he goes in to speak before Felix, there's a number of different topics that he could have brought up. He could have mentioned social issues or things that were affecting the Jews or the early Christians, and he could have advocated for the rights of the people. But here's what he says. He reasoned about righteousness, self control, and the coming judgment, Felix was alarmed and said, Go away for the present, when I get an opportunity, I will summon you. Again. Paul had a spiritual focus, he took the opportunity in front of this very powerful man to try to get him to think about his spiritual standing before the Lord. It's not that we don't care about what happens to those around us. Galatians chapter six says that as God's people, we should be ready to do good to all, especially to those of the household of faith. But as the body of Christ, we must never lose sight of our goal of the ultimate purpose in Christ. And to not get into this mindset of seeing the church as a physical thing. When we do that, we start to look at even our own assembly, we think about the will how does the building look? And what are people dressed in? And is the the worship going to be exciting? Is it going to be appealing invigorating? All of these things, we we focus on the physical appetites, instead of hungering and thirsting for righteousness. Our goal in Christ is to help others see who Jesus is. And then for all of us to grow to maturity, to be mature followers of Christ. The spiritual verse, the fleshly mind also impacts how we view our possessions. Is money, a bad thing? Is money evil? Is money, something that should be put at a distance from us or that we should try to stay away from it as much as we can. One of the kids was asking me one time, why I have to go to work. And I usually try to just give simple answers with that kind of stuff. I said, Well, I have to make money. And she said, Well, why do you need to make money? I said, Well, we have to pay for all of our stuff for our house and our food and our electricity. And she said, Well, I understand that you have to go to work to make money. But when you come home from work, where is all of the money? And wouldn't that be fun? If they paid us in coins and we could bring a little sack home every day and have the kids counted out we probably wouldn't spend it quite as fast. But we understand that money and possessions are part of living in this world we have to have money to survive. Money is not inherently evil. John chapter 12. And verse six tells us that Jesus and his disciples kept a sum of money with them. They used it presumably to provide for their needs, and there were many who contributed funds to the ministry of Jesus. But it's interesting that John tells us that Judas was the one in charge of the money back. Judas wasn't focused on spiritual things. He had a physical view of the ministry He was taking from the bag trying to see what he could get for it for himself. It's not money that is the root of all evil. But in First Timothy chapter six, Paul says that it is the love of money, the desire for more things. In First Timothy, chapter six and verse 17, Paul says, command those who are rich in this present world not to be arrogant, nor to put their hope and wealth which is so uncertain, but to put their hope in God who originally provides us with everything, for our enjoyment. Where do we put our hope? Is it in the fleshly mind is it in all the things that we have, is our goal to acquire as much as we can to raise ourselves up so that we can be at a greater standing a higher level of status and security. Notice what Paul reminds Timothy of he says that these things are so uncertain. Even the possessions that we have, they could be here with us one day, and then a storm comes through, and they're gone. The next. And so instead of putting our hope and trust and all that we have, we should be seeking to use these things to the glory of God, that we would see them as tools as assets, to helping others and to doing God's work, to the glory of God. You know, this past 18 months has been crazy. With all the stuff that's been going on with COVID. And one of the things that has just never, in my lifetime sort of thing has been these stimulus payments that we've gotten. And, you know, every month, you look at the bank account, and there's more come more money coming in from the government, and for some who've lost their jobs or who have been without, that has been a lifeline. But for many of us who did not lose our jobs during the pandemic, that money has just been extra cash in the account. And so I was thinking to myself, you know, with all these extra hundreds or 1000s of dollars that have just been coming to me with no work on my own part, have I become a more generous person? Have I been more giving to people who are in need? Have I found myself just being more free with offering to help those around me? And the realization is that, yes, money to a certain level, is important to provide for basic needs our food and clothes, we have to have money to sustain ourselves. But we get to a point that having more money doesn't necessarily make us more giving more generous. It's about seeing the possessions we do have, and seeing them with a mind that is set on things above. Not Well, I have more money so I can buy more stuff. But how am I going to use all that God has given me? For his purposes? How can I use this for His glory? And finally, this changes, ultimately, how we see our life. What is our life about? What's the purpose? Why are we here? What are we trying to do in this world? Is our life about our family? Is it about our job is it about our ambitions, I heard a story recently about a man who wanted to climb Mount Everest. And he's in his 40s. And he saved up the 1000s of dollars that's required to go on one of these expeditions. And he got so close to the top but he started feeling sick, he had to turn around and go back down. And so he made a second attempt, he got two jobs and he was again working as hard as he could to save up all these this money so that you get the opportunity to climb the highest mountain in the world. What is the purpose of why we're here? It says so that we can accomplish some feat is it so that we can go to some place when we seek the things above? It changes our perspective. It gives us a totally different view on the world, our our goals, our aspirations, our direction, are changed in John chapter six, when the people when some of the disciples started to leave Jesus and they had heard Some of the things that he was saying, and they said, these are difficult words for us to hear. And Jesus turned to the 12. And he said, Well, do you want to go away also. And he remember what Simon Peter said in John chapter six, and verse 68. He said, Lord, to whom shall we go? You have the words of eternal life. There's nothing in this world that can give us the assurance, the security, the hope, that is found in Jesus Christ, the eternal life that our Lord offers to us. When we view life, from a spiritual point of view, we understand that we're here just for a short time, that our life is just a vapor that appears for a little while and then vanishes away. So whatever things we might get involved with, or that our emotions might be piqued by in this world, it's nothing compared to the glory that will be revealed in those who love the Lord. We're going to close this morning with a song of invitation. It's an opportunity to encourage any who are here, there's something that we can do to help you or to encourage you spiritually, to pray for you or if you need to put on Christ and to make that good confession to become one of his children. If you have a need this morning, please come down to the front as we stay in insane


Transcribed by https://otter.ai