Well, surely he would agree with me that we've engaged in meaningful, heartfelt worship and praise to God appreciate all those who lead in the worship this morning directing our minds to the reading of God's word from parts of it and a course for reminding ourselves of Jesus sacrifice on the cross, we need to remember that, especially as we gather together this morning, but each day of our lives and I appreciate the songs that JD led for us this morning, which will certainly complement the lesson that I want to share with you today. Isaiah, chapters 4344 basically contains some powerful promises that God makes concerning the restoration of His people Israel from captivity, to the ultimate fulfillment of these promises, is found in the Lord's church, which we are part of today, which was established and accepted to. But Isaiah uses some powerful language to describe God's empowering grace for his people returning to the promised land and as Isaiah predicts Israel's return returned from Babylonian captivity, God promises to make a road in the wilderness. And to make rivers or streams in the desert. There was a book that was written years ago back 1925 by lb Cowman is called streams in the desert, I don't really know much about that devotional book, but I like the title. And I've chosen that as the title of my lesson this morning. Again, as JB mentioned, we'll be looking at Isaiah chapter 43, first 19. So that's really the text of my lesson this morning. And the, the messages coming from that text will be what we'll talk about this morning. So if you've got your bibles opened, you can look at Isaiah chapter 43, I'm going to be putting these scriptures on the screen as well. But I want to suggest to each of us that God's word is intentional and in the promises that God makes, he does so in such a way that he wants to get our attention. And he displays for us the power that he has to help us make our way through the very difficult challenges of life. And so we're going to talk about this very compelling language, your message of God providing streams or rivers in the desert. And so we'll be looking at Isaiah chapter 43. This morning, as we get into that this is a little different lesson since this the lesson based on really a couple of verses, we're just going to go back and look at Isaiah chapter 43. And some verses before and after verse 19, to get an understanding of what God is saying to people visually, especially the people of Judah, wanting to come out of captivity. And then I want to make some applications to that. What does that mean, for you and me today, that God can produce streams in the desert or provide a road into wilderness, a place where you wouldn't wouldn't have a road who who builds roads in the wilderness? God can do that. But we don't do that. And so it's a it's a compelling verse, a script I wants to think about this morning. So let's look at the background in just a moment. Verse 19, is the phrase that we're focusing on this morning, where God says, I will even make it roadway in the wilderness and rivers in the desert. So to get an understanding of this context, let's look back at what is said a few verses before that, and the verses that follow. So again, that the context of Isaiah chapter 43, will help us understand what God's saying to His people. So when Isaiah chapter 43, we're just going to jump in here in verse 14. So we're going to be focusing on verse 19. But look at verse 14. And following your look at what God is saying over here to his people of Israel. He says that says the Lord, your Redeemer, the Holy One of Israel, for your sake, I will send to Babylon and bring them all down as fugitives to Cal diems, who rejoice in their ships. So a couple of things. God says, I'm speaking here, I know you're in captivity, but I have your best interests at heart. I know what's going on. I am still your God, I'm still your Savior. I am still your free gamer. It's even while they're in captivity, and the outlook is bleak. And they were probably at the point some of them it despair, or despondency, to being afflicted by the Babylonians their life, they can't even see the end of the tunnel. And Gods remind them that I'm your Redeemer. I'm the Holy One of Israel. And basically,

I think what Isaiah is teaching us is that God always acts in a way that's consistent with his holy character, God created Israel for His glory. And he's going to fulfill that purpose. I appreciate the comments. I've been reading from Homer Haley's commentary on the book of Isaiah. But basically, I think this is going to be a reference to God raising up Cyrus, the Persian king, to punish Babylon and to ultimately deliver his people. And so he says, if for your sake, I will send to Babylon and bring them all down as fugitives. So again, I think God's making reference to, and Isaiah is making reference to how God will use Cyrus, a Persian king to bring down the lofty and proud Babylonians. And he's notice in particular course, they're called Kaldi, and to rejoice in their ships, the Babylonians to Cal viens took great pride in their ships that they used to bring much wealth to their nation. And I think the irony here is that God's gonna bring Babylon down in the very shifts that they use to build up their wealth and power. So that's the message that God is telling his people here, that he's really the one that's still in control. And when the world looks dark, and bleak, and you can't really see what the next step is going to be, God says, I know what's going on in your world, and I am still your God. And then in verse 15, as he continues to give a message to the people of Israel, again, this repetition, he says, I am the Lord, Your Holy One, the creator of Israel, your King. And so when you look at these statements that we kind of repass kind of quickly, again, God's reminding us who reminded his people Israel, he says, I am still your God, even though you're in captivity, even though the Babylonians have their feet on your neck, so to speak, I am your God. I'm the holy one, again, the emphasis here that everything that God does in terms of in terms of redeeming his people, is based on his holy character as he keeps his promises. And he's still the creator of the creator of Israel, and he is still their king. Yes, they're in captivity, but he's still the king of Israel. And he's going to bring them through their, their trials and or difficulties that they're facing. So again, we're looking at the the background of Isaiah chapter 43. To appreciate this phrase, I'm going to provide streams or rivers in the desert and roadway, in the wilderness. So in verse, verses 16, and 17, we continue to look at the background leading up to this, these verses. Thus says the Lord, who makes a way in the sea of path in the mighty waters, Who brings forth a chariot and horse, Army and warrior, they lie down, they cannot rise, they are extinguished, quenched, like a wick West God talking about here, what's Isaiah talking about? Here, he's talking about what God did for people of Israel has in the great exodus led them out of Egypt, and he drowned the Egyptian armies in the sea, and they die, they sank in the bottom of the water. And so the look at the language versus the Lord who makes a way in the sea, and a path in the mighty waters. He's not talking about what he's gonna do in the future. But he's talking about what he did to Pharaoh and his mighty army. So again, this language here is intentional. God makes a way through the sea, and a path to the mighty waters. And again, he's using this language here in verse 16, because it's going to come up again in verse 19, but in a different application. And again, I'm suggesting to us that this language is quite intentional, intentional, and I think what he's saying he is predicting is that he's going to bring about this restoration in a way that's even more remarkable. And so again, we're talking about what God did to Pharaoh what God did to the army of the Egyptians and the Red Sea, he destroyed them. So ASAP and Assam that he wrote, says about God, you are resplendent, more majestic than the mountains of prey, the stout hearted were plundered, they sank into sleep, and none of the warriors could use his hands at your rebuke God of Jacob, both rider and horse were cast into a dead sleep. You, you indeed are to be feared, and you may who may stand in your presence once you're angry. So again, the Psalmist is talking about the mighty deed of God when he brought down the Egyptian army in the Red Sea. God's people walk through on dry ground. God made a way for them, but then he round all of the Egyptian chariots and Armina horses and they're all dead. They perished, and they couldn't move he couldn't even use their hands. Again, a reminder, when things look so bleak for Israel, and Pharaoh was breathing down threatened threatening language and springing these chariots upon Israel, God brought him into the people who were God's enemies. So again, Psalm 76 is just a commentary on this great event. Now we'll continue to get back to our text over here in verse 18, it's interesting. So we just describe what God did to Pharaoh in the Egyptian army, how we brought them down, and he drowned them in the bottom of the sea. Then he says, Remember, not the former things, nor considered the things of old So was he saying, well, these people, these Israelites are in captivity? Is he saying don't think about which had in the past? Or don't even think about what I did in the past? I think what he might be saying here is that, yes, this was a powerful display of God's power and bringing down Pharaoh and the Egyptian army. But he's, I think he might be saying, if you think that was impressive, I want to show you what God's gonna do yet in the future. And so that's the phrase here, verse 19, behold, lamb doing a new thing. Now it springs forth, do you not perceive it? So Isaiah is giving the people of Israel the promise that God's gonna deliver them from their captivity and rescue them in a powerful way that even was greater than what he did bring the people out of Egypt. And so here's the phrases, he says, Concerning this new way, think about the new year that we're in and how God can bring us through our trials and difficulties and temptations. He says, I will make a way in the wilderness again, you don't drive through the wilderness, you'd have to have a full wheel drive, you can't drive through the wilderness, you have to take out trees and all that stuff, need a tank or a bulldozer, then he says, I'm going to make rivers in the desert. Well, rivers don't just pop up in the desert. That's not the place where they're going to be. But he said, I'm going to make a way in the wilderness he's talking about, I'm going to make a way for you. Like in the wilderness, and rivers in the desert. So again, it's a reminder that, that God is more powerful, and more loving than we can even begin to imagine he's going to bring us through a greatest trials. And I want to say this, when he talks about making rivers in the desert. I don't think when Israel is in Babylonian captivity, he's talking about literal rivers. But what he's talking about is providing an abundance of water and satisfaction and food and everything that they would need, if they would finally make the return to the promised land. So I think again, this is not literal language. But it's an incredible promise. And again, what he's saying here, I believe that God's gonna provide a new way back to the promised land, and he's going to provide water to nourish them and their animals along the way. So he's, again, this is a promise while they're in captivity, and they're at the point may be of discouragement, even despondency. He says, I'm going to bring you out of this in a way that you don't even know about yet, even more powerful than I did when I ground the Egyptian army. I'll make this way in the wilderness, this road in the wilderness and rivers in the desert. And look at

Isaiah chapter 41, verses 17 through 20. This is just a couple chapters prior to this. And this kind of gives a context to this promise. He says, When the poor and needy seek water and there is none. And their tongue is parched with thirst. I the Lord will answer them the God of Israel will not forsake them. I will open up rivers on the bear heights and fountains in the midst of the valleys. I will make the wilderness a pool of water, and the dry land springs of water. I will put into wilderness the cedar the acacia, the Myrtle and the olive. I will sit in the desert, the Cypress, the plain in the pine together, why is God gonna do all this? So that they may see and no may consider and understand together that the hand of the Lord has done this, the Holy One of Israel has created it. So God is going to provide for his people when they're in their Dire Straits in his especially coming back from captivity and having tremendous needs. God says I'm going to feed you with the Bread of Heaven. I'm going to give you abundant water, so I'll satisfy all of you. Those who are hurting Even your animals. So again, this the language here is quite intentional that God's going to provide this abundance for people as he fulfills His promise to bring them back to this from this horrible Babylonian captivity. And it come to verses 2021 as we finish up this section here, in this context, Isaiah says the wild beast will honor Me and jackals and the ostriches into norms prayer, when God provides nourishment and food for his people, and the water for the animals, even the animals praise God, even in his creation. praises him, the wild beast, a jackal, see ostriches, I'll give water in the wilderness, rivers in the desert, to give drink to my chosen people, God's going to fulfill his promises. He's going to protect his people, he's going to deliver his people, he's going to protect you, he's going to deliver you and me from the trials and adversities that we face in this life as we journey through the home that God has prepared for us in heaven. And he does it abundantly and all creation testifies of God's power, his his generosity, his cat kindness, in verse 21. He said, the people for the people whom I formed for myself, that they might declare my praise, what do you think is who would say is you're marching and making your way back to the Promised Land, having spent so much time in captivity, the angers, the grief, the loss, the loss lives? What are they going to say, when God restores them? They're gonna say, Praise God, thank you for bringing us out of captivity. And thank you, for all the goodness and thank you for the abundance of water that nourish this on this long journey from this Babylonian captivity back to the land of promise. There'll be thanking God in praising God, for all the richness of His grace that He showered upon them. And we need to do the same thing in our lives as we recognize that God gives us the food that we need that we eat and the water that we need to drink every day. So this this past is Isaiah chapter 43, verse 19, when I was reading through this last week or two, just really got my attention. I got to dig into this thing and see what God is saying, first, who is people Israel? And then what he's saying to us? Is this a principle that Paul talks about, in Ephesians, chapter three verses 20 and 21. Kind of a, a New Testament, you know, commentary of what we've been just talking about, is Paul's talking about God fulfilling His purposes for these Christians at Ephesus, he says, Now to Him who was able to do far more abundantly than all we that we ask or think, according to the power at work within us, to Him be glory in the church and in Christ Jesus throughout all generations forever and ever. Amen. Give this is a verse that we're all familiar with. You may have memorized it, or parts of it in different translations. But this first says that God can do exceedingly, abundantly above all that we ask

or can even imagined. I need more faith in that kind of a god. You need more faith in that kind of a God who can bring you through the darkest hours of trial or despair or doubt or discouragement. Whatever is going on. So Ephesians chapter three verses 20. And 21. kind of illustrate how what it means when God Frank makes rivers in the desert in a road in the wilderness. It is such a powerful thing that he does, again, showing us how, how gracious he is in his care for his people. Now, as we continue again, we're focusing on this passage in this this phrase that God makes rivers in the desert. You know how many times in Scripture, God talks about people being in the desert or being called, while they're in the desert. I went back and looked at this get some help from Sarah and maybe some others my wife. So how often in the Bible, were God's people found are called in a desert or in a wilderness wandering? Well, Moses, and Exodus chapter three, when God appeared to Moses and called him to deliver his people from Egyptian slavery, Moses was keeping the flock of his father in law, Jethro, the priest of Midian. And he led his flock to the west side of the wilderness, Moses in the wilderness, he comes to Mount Horeb, the mountain of God, an angel of the Lord appeared timid, a flame of fire out of the midst of a bush he looked and behold, the bush was burning. It was not consumed and a voice spoke to Moses, we know the rest of the story. But God appeared to Moses in a, a burning bush in the wilderness. While most of us out there dealing with trying to accomplish, God's will find out how God was using him. Moses is out in the wilderness. Jacob, we see and that's really a reference to Israel. We talked about that this morning in our Baba class, it said, but the Lord's portion is his people. Jacob has a lot of hair heritage. It says he found him in a desert land. Again, God's people in the desert, and in the howling waste of the wilderness. That what does God do for his people in that situation, he encircled him, he cared for him. He kept them as the apple of his eye, like an eagle that stirs up his nest that flutters over its young, spreading out its wings, catching them, burying them on his pinions his wings. So in the midst of the wilderness, God cares again for Israel for Jacob his people. Another verse to look at consider is Elijah at first Kings chapter 18. Remember the story of Elijah and he challenges the false prophets of Bale, on verse of chapter 19, verse one, Ahab told Jezebel, all that Elijah had done, and also how he had executed all the prophets with the sword. Then Jezebel sent a message to Elijah saying, so let the gods do to me and more also, if I do not make your life is the life of one of them.

By tomorrow, about this time, and when he saw that he arose and ran for his life, with the birth, Shiva which belongs to Judah left his servant there, but he himself I'm Elijah, when a day's journey into the wilderness, Elijah like these others, it's in the wilderness, what happens in the wilderness, God appears it he encourages him, came down set under a broom tree, he prayed that he might die, and said, It is enough. I wonder how many Christians have wondered, and maybe pray that they might die alive just at that point is it is enough, Lord, take my life, for I am no better than my father's. God strengthens him and feeds him and sustains him. Again, a couple more to look at John the Baptist in Matthew chapter three. It says, those days John the Baptist came preaching in the wilderness of Judea. John the Baptist came preaching in the wilderness. All this is happening in a wilderness all these desert places, all these bear in places, a howling wasteland, and he says, Repent, for the kingdom of heaven is at hand. For this as he who was spoken up by the prophet Isaiah, when he said, the voice of one crying in the wilderness, prepared the way of the Lord make His path straight. jhanas says wore a garment of Campbell's hair, and a leather belt around his waist, and His food was locusts and wild honey, then Jerusalem and all GB and all the region about the Jordan for going out to him in the wilderness area, and they were baptized by him in the river Jordan confessing their sins again, another great man of God finds himself in the wilderness. And God supports him and sustains him Jesus, glass example that we want to look at here, this section, Matthew, chapter four, Jesus was lit up by the Spirit into the wilderness to be tempted by the devil. And after fasting 40 days and 40 nights, he was hungry, and the tempter came and said to him, if you are the Son of God, command these stones to become loaves of bread. But he answered, It is written, Man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word that comes from the mouth of God bred, and this is the message that you need in it today. There's no matter where you're at in life, or what wilderness of suffering or trial or burden or temptation, we need to we need to be sustained by the word of God, we are we we will overcome our trials and our difficulties when we feed ourselves by every word that comes to the mouth of God. So again, it's just interesting to notice throughout Scripture, there's probably more examples, how often God's people were in the wilderness. They were in the desert, and God called them from that situation that they became rescuers and saviors of the people that they were called to help. And so let me take a look at one other passage of scripture that will bring the lesson to a close this morning. So I think one of the greatest fulfillments of this passage that we'll be looking at this morning and Isaiah chapter 43, that God will make The rivers in the desert and make your way in the wilderness is really Jesus providing us as we saw this morning, the living water. So, in John chapter four, Jesus had to pass through scenario scenarios. So he's worth wearied from his journey sat down by Jacobs, wells, but the sixth hour, the woman of Samaria came to draw water. And Jesus said to her, give me a drink for his disciples had gone away into the city to buy food. And the woman, Samaritan woman said to him, how is it that you a Jew, ask for a drink from me a woman of scenario, but Jews have no dealings with Samaritans? Jesus answered her, if you knew the gift of God, and who it is that is saying to you give me a drink, you would have asked him and he would have given you living water. That's what Jesus gives us. It offers us live water that sustains us now in for all of eternity to come. And so she doesn't understand what Jesus is saying there. And so in verse 11, the woman said him, Sir, you have nothing to draw water with, in the well is deep. Where do you get that living water?

Are you greater than our father, Jacob, he gave us the well and drank from it himself, as did his sons and his livestock. Jesus said to her, Everyone who drinks of this water and from Jacob's well will be thirsty again. But whoever drinks of the water that I will give him will never be thirsty, again. And then it says, The water that I will give him will become in him a spring of water, welling up to eternal life. And so I think there's a connection from what we were reading Isaiah chapter 43, God making streams or rivers in the desert, because God is the God of living water, he gives us living water, he gives us the hope, of eternal life as we come to Him, and seek to obey his will. He satisfies our soul deeply and provides our for our greatest needs, no matter what is going on in life. And so in some ways, I would suggest to us that Jesus that we sung this morning is the bread of life, and He is the living water. And so the questions that we leave for each of us this morning, are you in a desert of sorrow and sin? Are you in a wilderness of fear and uncertainty and loneliness? Are you out in some desert of affliction or pain or isolation? The solution today has come to Jesus he is the bread of life, who offers to each of us living water, so that he can quench the thirst that each of us have in our souls, and the way that we access the living water in the trenches. complete forgiveness is through faith in Christ Jesus, repenting of our sins, and then submitting to God's command to be immersed in water. And in doing so, all of our sins are washed away if you need to do that we're here to assist you. Or if you need the prayers of this congregation, this be good time to come forward while we stand and sing this invitation song


Transcribed by https://otter.ai