Good job. I'm glad you survived who knows what to do and because this technology is kind of above, above me, so my lesson this morning is on the seven I ams in the Gospel of John. Our New Testament begins we know with four gospels, Matthew, Mark, Luke and John. They're the first three Matthew, Mark Luke, we call this Synoptic Gospels, because they are very similar. But the Gospel of John is different. It has some unique presentations. And the other gospels, there's some mystery as to who Jesus is. Is he the carpenter, Joseph kid from that dinky little town called Lazarus? Is he the Senator David, Israel's favorite King? Is he the prophet Elijah, who has been raised from the dead? Or is he just a good man, a great teacher? Or could it be that he is the Son of God? The other Gospels have these questions from time to time. But the Gospel of John begins with assertion as to who Jesus is, in the beginning was the Word. And the Word was with God, and the Word was God. He was in the beginning with God. All things came into being by him. And apart from Him, nothing came into being that has not come into being in him was live, and alive was a lot of man, and the light shines in the darkness, and the darkness did not comprehend it. So here are the very first very first verses. John identifies Christ as the living word. Now, how did it all start? You remember the words, Genesis one opening the scriptures. In the beginning, God created the heavens of the earth. And the earth was formless and void, and darkness was over the surface of the deep, and the Spirit of God was moving upon the waters. Then God said in verse three, let there be light, and there was light. Christ was present at the very beginning. He is light, let there be light, in a period of sense, and the word God there in our text is from the Hebrew word Elohim, which is a plural word. Anytime, when in some of your Bibles, you may use the word Jehovah, American Standard use of the word Jehovah. Other versions use the word Lord all in capital letters. And those are from measure is Hebrew word, which is a plural word. Now recall another story that doesn't Moses, the burning bush, Moses was in the desert, caring for his father in law's livestock, we saw something amazing. Angel, the Lord appear to him and a blazing fire from the midst of the bush. And he wrote to behold, the bush was burning with fire, yet the bush was not consumed. So Moses said, I'm going to turn aside now and see this marvelous light, why the bush is not burned up. When the Lord saw that he was that it turned aside to look, God called him from the midst of the bush and said, Moses, Moses, and he said, Here am I, that is a Do not come near here. Remove your sandals, from your feed for the place of which you are standing is holy ground. He said, also, I am the God of your father, the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob. Then Moses hid his face, for he was afraid to look at God, afraid to look at God. Then Moses said to God, behold, I'm going to the sons of Israel. And I shall say to them, the God of your fathers has sent me to you. Now they may say to me, what is his name? What shall I say to them? And God said to Moses, I am who I am. And he said, thus usual say to the sons of Israel, I am has sent me to you, and the word I am, is used in a sense of eternal I've always been I am. So let's look now at the phrases. They're used in the Gospel of John. I am the rent of live. John 635. Jesus is the living bread. When people came to him on occasion, they were hungry. We have the great mobs following him. As they gathered around, they had nothing to eat, and Jesus fed them. But then Jesus said, John 635, I am the bread of life. He who comes to Me shall have hunger, and he believes in Me shall never thirst. So when Jesus fed the multitude on the hillside on one occasion, he was also feeding their hearts, as well as their stomachs. You remember the time when Satan tempted Jesus as Christ and been in the wilderness for 40 days and 40 Nights. Then Jesus was led up by the Spirit into the wilderness to be tempted by the devil. And after he had fasted 40 days and 40 nights, he became hungry. And the gentry came and said to him, if you are the Son of God, command these stones to become bread. And you remember what Christ answered? It is written, Man shall not live by bread alone button on every word that proceeds out of the mouth of God. And you remember also how Christ taught the disciples how to pray, as they asked him about this, and he told him, Give us this day, our daily bread, follow Prayer in Matthew six, and verse 11. And even more important, is the fact of the bread of life, which is God's word. And while we should have a kind heart to those who may be hungry, we should also have the attitude of heart and mind to see the living bred to those who are living in darkness and sin. Our neighbors, our friends, our co workers, our schoolmates. They're hungry for the living bread. They may not realize it, though, certainly, we know what truth is, no matter. Another I am, Jesus said in John 812, I am the light of the world. And light is what Jesus is all about. As he shines forth in a world that is darkened by sin, this is the message which we have heard from him and announcing to you that God is light, and in him is no darkness at all. If we say that we have fellowship with Him and walk in the darkness, we lie and do not the truth. Know that Jesus said, He was the light, not a light, neither Muhammad, nor Buddha nor Zoroastrian or any other. Suppose a deity can supply the light that brightens the way we should walk. If we walk in the light that Christ gives, then we become whites. You can imagine the fifth chapter, you're the light of the world, a series or a hill cannot be hidden, nor to be a lot of Latin, put it under a bushel, or Enertech measure, but on the lampstand and you'd like to author in the house. Let your light so shine before men in such a way that they may see your good works, and glorify your Father who is in heaven. You invited some guests over for dinner one night. And they stayed until after the sun went down, it was dark. And was the reason the street lights went out. And the moon was covered by the clouds. And he lived about two blocks away and they were walking home. What would you do for them? You might give them a flashlight. Might give them a flashlight to help them find a way home? Well, is your neighbor, your coworker your friend living in a spiritually Dark World And what have you done for them to help them see the light? Or do you have a butcher over your head? They can't see you can see your spiritual wide. Christ gave His very life to become the light of the world. So what are we doing? To spread his light Philippians two, do all things without murmurings and questionings that you did become blameless and harmless, children of God without blemish in the midst of a crooked, averse generation, among whom you are seen, as lights in the world, holding forth the word of life, that I have there after glory in the day of Christ, that I did not run in vain, neither labor in vain. So what are we doing? To shine the light to our neighbors, Jesus was not the only one who was light as we should reflect His light that others might see Christ. I am the door John, the 10th chapter. Jesus therefore says to them, Verily, a truly I say to you, I am the door of the sheep. All who came before me are thieves and robbers, but the sheep did not hear them. I am the door. If anyone hit her through me, he shall be saved. And she'll go in and out and find pasture. throughout the scriptures, we're called to choose the way that we're going to go and walk in this world. And in many places, we are told of the way to God is not always an easy way. Matthew, the seventh chapter, enter with a narrow gate, for the gate is wide, the way it bra, the Legion instruction, and many are those who enter in by it, for the gate is small, and the way is narrow, the least alive. And few are those who find it. But compare this through driving down the interstate, somewhere, you've got a particular destination, and there are many exits along the way. But only one exit will take you to your destination. You have to be careful. That's the exit, you take. And so that will Christ. There is no other way. No other way. No other door. He said, I am the way I am the door. And who is it that has the key to unlock the door. For us today, as you and me we have the key. The Great Commission, very familiar pastor to us, is addressed to every Christian, not just to the apostles, Matthew 28, Go therefore and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them the name of the Father, the Son, the Holy Spirit, teaching them to observe all that I commanded you. And lo on with you always, even to the end of the age. Notice what he said There you go, make disciples that ties them and teach them to do what I told you to do is to go make disciples. The Great Commission was not just to the 12. Royal Commission is every one of us. What are we doing to fulfill that great commission. Charles Defoe called a French believer said the only way to be a follower of Jesus is to do what he did to share his message with the same words he said, and to complete the things Jesus was doing. And wouldn't that include sharing the good news and salvation as we were His followers. Jesus also said, I am the good shepherd. I am the good shepherd, the good shepherd lays down his life for the sheep. He is a hireling and not a shepherd, who is not the owner of the sheep beholds the wolf coming and he leaves the sheep and flees, and the wolves snatches them and scatters them. He flees because he isn't Harling and is not concerned about the sheep. I am the good shepherd. And I know my own, my own know me, even as the Father knows me, and I know the Father, and I lay down my life for the sheep. Jesus is a good shepherd. He feeds us, He cares for us. He looked for us when we gone astray. He said, a good shepherd would even leave the naughty man, and go look for the one that was lost, to draw to find that one, and bring it back. And he was willing to suffer so much for us. In looking for us, there's willing to die a cruel death in order to save us. Now notice when Jesus said in verse 16, I have other sheep, which are not of this fold, almost bring them also, and they shall hear My voice and they shall become one flock with one shepherd. Now, who are the ones to go and find these washi? That you may as you have me, I am the resurrection, and the life. I am the resurrection in the life he who believes in Me shall live even if he dies. And this labor of Christ should have special meaning to us. Job is just an amazing character. If you call the job and maybe savoured more than any other human has ever lived. In a moment of time, he lost his flocks, those herds, he lost his children. In time his wife turned against him, lost his health, his friends came and they turned against him. He remember his wife, after all these things he suffered, she said Joe was just curse God and die. But through all this Job did not sin. Nor did he blame God. Notice what's sustained job, job 19. As for me, I know that my Redeemer lives of the last he will take his stand upon the earth, even after my skin and destroyed, yet from my flesh, I shall see God who I myself shall behold, and who my eyes shall see and not another. Muhammad feigns within me. Can you think of any other statement of the Old Testament that compares with this in a job have a sense of Christ returning and taking his stand on the earth at the resurrection. And Job says, I know I will see him. And I'm quite confident. That's what sustained Jobe through all these trials. His faith did not waver. Consider the words of Psalm who did not look hopefully, to the resurrection of the dead. Robert Ingersoll, an American writer and the orator during the Golden Age of free thought. Oh God, if there be a God saved my soul, if I have a soul from hell, if there'll be a hell can you imagine Napoleon Bonaparte French ruler who slaughtered millions, as did I don't Hitler. I die before my time, and my body will be given back to the earth, such as the fate of him who has been called the great Napoleon. In what an abyss between my deep misery and the eternal kingdom of Christ, Anton Lavie, the author of The Satanic Bible, and the priests of satanic worship. There is a beast in man that needs to be exercised, not exercised. his dying words were, oh my, oh my, what have I done? There's something very wrong. What a sad way to face eternity. And then we have the words the Basel Paul. I'm hard pressed both from for both directions, having the desire to depart and to be with Christ. For that is very much better. So the question is, are you and are living with that same frame of mind, not fearing death. Romans 835, Who shall separate is the love of God, a love of Christ. So tribulation or distress or persecution or famine or nakedness, or peril, or sword? And it goes on, and all these things were overwhelmingly conquered through him and loved us. For I'm convinced, that neither death, nor life nor angels, nor principalities, nor things present or things to come, nor powers, nor height, nor depth, or any other created thing, shall be able to separate us from the love of God, which is in Christ Jesus, our Lord. What great confidence Paul had. And I pray that we can have the same, the same confidence. Jesus and I am, the Way, the Truth and the Life. No one can be the father, but through me. There's so much religious confusion in the world. Buddhism, Hinduism, Judaism, Islam, Satanism, and some 42,000 different Christian denominations. I haven't added them all up. But somebody has done some research and came up with his idea of 42,000 all claiming to be Christian. Yeah, they each have their own Creed's was different one another, and also differ from the Bible. That is the working of Satan. Hall road and St. gritties 11. Presents men are false apostles, deceitful workers disguising themselves as apostles of Christ. And no wonder. Even Satan disguises himself as an angel of light. Therefore, it is not surprising it in service also disguise themselves as service or righteousness, who's in shall be according to their deeds. These men and women do not stand in the pulpit with a red suit, and a pitchfork and horns but they disguise themselves look good, speak good words, carry marble around with them. And some of them are deceive themselves. But I think there are some that are in it for the money. I was reading yesterday about a preacher some mega church. The church has already bought him $89 million jet plane. And now he's saying the reason Christ hasn't come yet is because we're not giving enough. You need to increase your contributions. So the Christ will come. I suspect he was wanting to buy something else. I'm not sure what. They deceive themselves. But in vain do they worship Me, teaching his doctrines the precepts of men. Matthew 59 be God has given us a proven and accurate guide called the Bible. It's based on solid evidence that cannot be refuted. Every historical event was recorded in the Bible can be they can be traced, has been found to be accurate. Critics have tried to attack the Bible for centuries, they cannot find a single reason to cast doubt as to its authenticity. One Amazing Thing is that Christ fulfilled over 300 prophecies, some written hundreds of years before he was ever born. There is no way the human mind could accomplish that could have only happened by the mind of God. And there is no other religious book in the world that even begins to approach this evidence. And then Christ said, I am the vine. John 15 chapter on the violin, my father is the wine dresser. Every branch in Me that does not bear fruit it takes away and every branch to bear fruit, he prunes it, that it may bear more fruit. You're already clean because the word was spoken to you. Abide in me. And I knew, as a branch cannot bear fruit of itself unless it abides in the vine, so neither can you. Unless you abide in me, I am the vine, you are the branches. He will buys from me and I am him he bears much fruit. For apart from me, can you do blogging, who Jesus says here is all about being connected. We cannot live by ourselves, cut off from others, and cut off from him. We're all members of God's family. We're all brothers and sisters, in the family of God, God being the father of being our father and in Christ in a sense, being our elder brother, as a branch must receive nourishment from the vine. So we must stay connected to the one who sustains us and nourishes us. Jesus Christ knows again, when Christ said, I am the vine, you're the branches. He that abides in Me and I on him he bears much fruit. For apart from me, you can do nothing. Now what does he mean there when he says, to bear fruit? This is not the fruit of the Spirit. Love, joy, peace, water. That's what we're talking about. What is the fruit of a grape vine? Would it be more grapes? I think that makes sense. So what is the fruit of a Christian? Would there be another Christian This is a responsibility God has given to every Christian to be active in the matter of seeking souls trying to win others to Christ. Obviously we cannot convert everybody we talked to because the decision is there to make. And God has given us freewill. But I have known I have known of soul winners. over 100 years of age, we had a friend in Tampa, we were living in an assisted living place. And even at 100 years of age, she was responsible for bringing others to Christ. Our teenagers who are bearing fruit are never having a meeting many years ago in Missouri and a teenage girl and the church there rustle of her friends who were baptized into Christ that we started with him. Her name was Nancy Harbor, you know some of her family that goes to church here. She was just 16 years old. And I don't have others And it may be you don't feel confident, to be able to lead others to teach them. But there's a whole be glad to go with you. If you just make the contact and seek to win others to Christ are we trying? Are we trying? The fruit of the righteous is a tree of life. And he who is wise, wins souls, as the wise man said in Proverbs 11. One of the songs that we sing, Jesus is all the world to me, my life, my joy, my all. The question I'll leave us with this morning, is that describe our relationship with Christ? Is he truly all the world to you and to me? If you're here this morning, and you described yourself as a lukewarm Christian, I hope you'll be encouraged to renew your commitment that you made the day you were baptized into Christ if we can help you in any way, and you resolve to recommit let us know. If you're not a Christian you never remember ties in to Christ. You have no purpose in life and you have no hope. Christ died to save you. And he invites you to come. He that believes and it will tries shall be saved. If you need to respond the Lord's invitation will you come and we stand and sing


Transcribed by https://otter.ai