David Tant  00:02
It's good to be with you this evening. And the number gathered reminds me the days many years ago when we started a new church in Roswell, Georgia, with 12 members. And this kind of looks familiar some of the early years when we had just a few present. But we're glad that we have the technology that this can be seen over the internet. And we're talking this evening about the silence of the scriptures. The silence are the scriptures. For hundreds of years, Bible believers have had discussions over the question of this matter of the silence of the scriptures. That is, the silence indicate whatever is not specifically condemned is permissible. The silence give consent or to silence mean that there is no authority for a certain practice. And it is therefore an scriptural and these are not new questions. We go back centuries to telling the second century wrote of those who claim that which is not forbidden, is freely permitted. But he said, I would rather say that what has not been freely allowed, is forbidden. So it says we say that he was respecting the silence of the scriptures. We come on later on to the Reformation period. And Martin Luther stated, whatever is without the word of God, is by that very fact against God. But he did not keep this idea for a long time, he changed. Although Deuteronomy four says, You shall not add to the word which I'm commanding you, nor take away from it, that you may keep the commandments of the Lord your God, which I command you. So that's what the scripture said. And Luther was basing his ideas on that. But then in time, He changes us. What is not against scripture is for scripture and scripture for it. So in the Reformation, Luthers do prevail. That one, the majority, if swing, Lee's view had prevailed, who knows what difference that might have made in the ensuing centuries, for starting with the Reformation movement, but Luther leaves on 15 years longer than Zwingli did. There's a war that arose. A protestant pastor was captured by a militant Catholic group and was put to death of the promise of government in Zurich, Switzerland, declared war. And while serving as a chaplain in this war, Zwingli was hit with a spear and died, then we come to the idea that so many have followed through the years, silence gives consent. But reminding you of Zwingli practices not enjoined or taught in New Testament should be unconditionally rejected. And as I said, this became the preferred you which we haven't submitted the nominations today. Last I read in some works done by our good friend, there are some 42,000 different denominations, all claiming to be Christian 42,000, all teaching different things. And part of that I came, I think came from losers view that really makes no difference, but what the Bible had to said. So, we come to the restoration movement, as the question came to the front once again, because now then, after the some years, beginning and writing 100, we have ll Pinkerton, who did what he introduced the melodeon in the worship of the church in Midway, Kentucky, in 1859. And he based his views on the idea that they were not forbid. And this then led to division in the church. One of his arguments was, wherever he was a sin was so bad, that it scared the rats away. That's what he said. I don't know if he consulted with the rats or why they were meeting or what but that was his view. To him. The instrument was just A inexpedient JS Lamarr argue that the incident was an invincible consequence of growth and culture that isn't assessed. We had to keep up with the times. Whatever is going on around us, you know, we have to keep up with that. And these use ushered in many other practices, which after some 50 years resulted in the tragic division with the Christian Church and the Church of Christ. And then for the Christian church has found other groups that have gone on to various things way out, in the view. So the view of sovereigns gives consent is prominent and strong in most all denominations today. Whatever men think is good, that that's what we can do. But then the question is, what say if the scriptures, what does the Scripture say? And that is what we want to focus on. In our study tonight. Going back to the Old Testament, try we can label present the first case for our consideration. Cane sacrifice, was not accepted. Aidells was what was the problem? Hebrews 11, for said By faith, Abel offered to God had better sacrifice than Cain, through which he obtained the testimony, and that he was righteous. We don't know all that God told him. But we do know, God would have told him the same thing. Abel offered a sacrifice according to what God has said. But Cain did not. Romans 1017 Faith comes by hearing, and hearing by the word of Christ. So when it said, and he raised it by faith Abel offered, then we know that was by means of the Word of God, Romans 10, seven, or 1017. Python by here, we read that if the Bible told us everything that was prohibited, we have to have a wheelbarrow to carry it around, if we could even put that. But what was told to Cain and Abel, in a sense, was a necessary implication. Another way to ascertain what God's will is. The same reasoning applies to the command to Moses, concerning a certain sacrifice number 19. To this is the Statute of the law which the Lord has commanded, saying, Speak to the sons of Israel, that they bring you an unblemished red heifer, in which there's no defect on which a yoke has never been placed on a red heifer. Here's the kind of red heifer that I want. Where do we find regard said, No horse? No zebra, no Bedbug? No. And where do we find these prohibitions? How many animals are there on the face of the earth? More than I can count. And again, we couldn't carry the Bible around. If every time God told us what he wanted, he had to go through every list of every category of the things that did not see it, what he wanted. For us. The point is clear. God said what he wanted, but did not need to specify what he did not want. We often refer to Noah and the building of the ark. What kind of would go for would go for would make for yourself and our gopher would notice God did not say I don't want ash, birch cedar dogwood for piggery. I won't go through it. My father was making a point on this sermon many years ago and he said no had used one stick of wood of any other kind. That arc would have floated and would have would have sucked like a rock and there's a lady in the audience of eight who heard that and after was served it was over and she was on an ad. She said I disagree with you. He said I think he's right. You know and used any other kind of wood that art would have sought like a rock she said no, it never would have floated in the first place. Okay. They can't say given doesn't float out and he agreed she had a point. It never would have floated in the first place. And we come to the point of me that out of bye you Another example consider as God gave instruction concerning fire of the sacrifice, but then you can 1612 he shall take a fire pan full of coals of fire, blow up on the altar before the Lord and two handfuls of finely ground sweet incense and bring it inside the veil. So here's God instruction, guttering, sacrifice the fire. Leviticus 10 chapter. Now Nate EBITDA by you, sons of Aaron took their respective fire pans. And after putting fire in them, placed incense on it, and all very strange fire before the Lord which he had not commanded them. And fire came from out of the presence of the Lord and consumed them, and they died before the Lord. So, once the operative phrase here, which he had not commanded them, fire is fire. They may have reason, you know, what determines what fire fire is fire, any fire will burn off the sacrifice. But it was a fire which he documented them. God was silent about other sources of fire. But it was very clear about this. NIV says he was an authorized fire. Then we come to the Ark of the Covenant. Whenever the ark was to be moved, God specified how it was to the move to Deuteronomy 10 A. And at that time, the Lord set apart the trauma livan to carry the ark of the covenant of the Lord, He further instruction, you should cast for gold rings for it. And based on them on his four feet, and two rings will be on one side rather than two rings on the other side, usually make poles of acacia wood and overlay them with gold, put the poles of the rings on the sides the art to carry they are with him. So here's specification that they are to carry the arc by inserting poles into the rings on the side. And then the polls on the shoulders of the men who care the ark. It's pretty clear how they were to transport. The Ark seems very sensible. But what happened to the ark, he was captured by the Philistines. And wherever they had it, they had great problems the father, they said we need to get rid of this thing. And so they said word to David to come and take the ark. David gallery and all he chose were men of Israel 30,000 And rose and went with all the people who were with him to bail Judah to bring up from there the ark of God, which is called by the name there in name of the Lord of hosts who is in throne above the chair of them. They placed the ark of God on a new card that they have I bring it from the house of Abinadab, which was on the Hill and Uzziah and a hail the sons of a better dad were leading the new cart. And what's happened here, they've got a good distance to travel. So why make these men walk carrying the arc on their shoulders, when it's much more convenient to put it on our cart? And let the oxygen bring along. That makes good sense, doesn't it? And only made good sense to them. They were doing a good work. But good to whom you demand are good to God. Could you remember the story? So they brought it with the ark of God to the house of a minute ad which was on the Hill and a higher was walking head of the art. Meanwhile David and all the house of Israel were celebrating before the Lord with all kinds of instruments music, affirm goodwill, liars, hearts, tambourines, gasoline, and cymbals. But when they came to the threshing floor of bacon Uzziah reached out toward the ark of God and took hold of it for the oxen nearly upset it. And the anger of the Lord burned against us. And God struck him down there for his irreverence, and he died there by the ark of God. He's doing a good work. The oxen stumbled. The Ark is about to fall off the cart. He puts up his hand to touch it, to keep it from falling to the ground. And he was struck did what seems good Demand is not always good in the eyes of the Lord. Why did he die? Because of a strict prohibition, First Chronicles 15. David said, no one is a care of the ark of God, but the Levites the Lord chose them to carry the ark of God and to administer to him forever, that is on their shoulders, on the roads and the shoulder numbers for 15 when Aaron and his sins are finished covering the holy objects and all the furnishings of the sanctuary, with the campus to be set out, after the Sons of Korah, shall come to carry them so that they will not touch the holy objects and die. David recognize the problem. David acknowledged what had gone wrong. First Chronicles 1513 Because you did not carry it at the first the Lord our God made it out burst on us, for we did not seek Him, according to the ordinance, evidently, by first thought, silence gives consent. God said what he wanted, but it did not say don't carry it any other way. And so the idea of silence gives consent did not work. Then we come to the New Testament. Going beyond, was on Paul's mind. In writing to the church at Corinth. Paul referred to himself on policies those authorized to speak with authority. First Corinthians four, six now these things, brethren, I vividly apply to myself on a policy for your sakes. So that in US you may learn not to exceed what is written. Don't go beyond don't exceed what has been written, to go beyond is going into the realm of silence, which was not to be done. No notice the church the Colossi, warns against unacceptable practices Colossians two, do not handle do not taste did not touch, which all referred to the things that's destined to perish with us in accordance with the commandments and teachings of men. These are matters which have to be sure the appearance of wisdom in self made religion and self abasement and severe treatment of the body, but are of no value against fleshly indulgence. So what is self made? Religion? When we think of things for ourselves, for which we have no authority, there are no value. There are no value against fleshly indulgence. Let me play with Joel Osteen. famous TV preacher has a Church in Houston, Texas with 40,000 members. He came to Atlanta some time ago and was interviewed on TV and on radio. He said I don't preach on sin. I want my people to feel good. I don't preach on sin. I want my people to feel good. Vines Expository Dictionary describes this will worship that Paul mentioned there is voluntary adopted worship whether unbidden or for bidden. Doing what is forbidden is clear. Doing what is unbidden, referred to that which is not authorized, or about which the Bible is silent. Summit. There's lexicon says it is worship which one devices and prescribes for himself. So here's the issue. When Jackson wrote this, if one may, with divine approval, operate in the realm of silence, why can't he devised and prescribe for himself whatever pleases Him? And yet is this very thing being censured? Another familiar patcher to a second, John is about going beyond. Whosoever goes onward and abides not in the teaching of Christ has not God. He that abides in the teaching. The same has both the Father and the Son. And there's been much discussion through the years about what the teaching of Christ is. Is that teaching about Christ? Or is that the teaching that he did. But it really makes no difference makes no difference. It would be ridiculous to say that we must adhere to the teaching about Christ. But we don't have to respect what He taught. That makes no sense what's at all. But that seems to be the idea that some people have, then we come to the priesthood of Christ, very much discussed in the book of Hebrews, Hebrews one five, under which the angels, said he at any time you are My Son, this day have I begotten you, and again, are between a father and he shall be to Me a son. Why could angels not be considered to be equal with the sun? Because God was silent. He didn't tell any of the angels you're my son. He was silent. If one is still not convinced, we consider the Seventh Chapter 13, and 14. For the one good turning whom these things are spoken belongs to another tribe, from which no one has officiated at the altar. It is evident that the Lord was descended from Judah, a tribe with reverence to which Moses spoke, nothing concerning briefs. You can go through the Old Testament, and read it carefully. And you'll never find one word. For God said, There shall not come a breeze, the tribe of Judah, or the tribe of Benjamin, or the tribe of Natha, lay it says Levi, Levi, no, where? Does it forbid anyone from another tribe? So they respected the silence of God or does matter. It shows that it does have some importance. Hebrews eight, four. Now, if he were on earth, he would not be a priest at all. Since there are those who offer the gifts or according to the law. Christ can be a High Priest now. Why? Because there was a change in the law. The Old Testament law did not allow for this. And so they had to be a change in the law. Here's the question. If Moses wrote nothing concerning briefs about this tribe of Judah, what mentioned? So did they respect this? They certainly did. And other passions we could refer to were after the restoring the nation, and then setting up the priests. There were certain ones who wanted to be priests, who claimed they were from the tribal Lila, but they search the records are they could not find their names. So they were not allowed. They were not allowed to serve. So I couldn't want because it will solid. So here are the consequences of the idea of the silence gives consent. If we accept the view, then there are some logical consequences that cannot be ignored. If there were a case that anything not expressly forbidden in the New Testament is permissible in the Christian religion, then we could not only use the pianos to cover our singing but beads to in our prayers, crucifixes to focus our devotion, and hashish to enhance our sensibility. We could also initiate an organizational network similar to that which had been protested so strongly and Catholicism or begin financing church projects with bingo games were illegal on Tuesday evenings. Not one of these things is expressly forbidden in the New Testament, and no one who denies the legitimacy of the authority of principle, as outlined above, can consistently Are you against any of them? Work and we argue against having bingo games and using that to raise money. No argument. The Bible does not prove it. 1000 views expressed by one who favors instruments. Given weekly God, silence is not a governing factor in matters pertaining to life and godliness. The whole idea of silence, as those of the anti instrumentalist position I've used the term requires the interpretation of fallible men. If God did not say it, then how can we be sure that men have said what he meant, but did not speak for God? How dare mortal men take upon themselves to that on authority on authorise outwardly speak for God. That's the argument. Now notice, he argues that we cannot use the silence argument, says God was silent about the solid argument. But God has not been solid about the silence argument. As we have seen in passage after passage after passage, in both Old and New Testaments, if nothing else, was relevant, if nothing else was significant, the argument about the priesthood of Christ to settle the matter, there is no way to argue a reason around this. That he was not authorized to be a priest, because the scriptures was Simon, Moses spoke nothing about that. And that settle the matter that settle the matter. And a second consideration is the Minister brightly uses his own reasoning. Now follow me with this. He says, If God is silent about silence, that we cannot use the silence argument. You understand? Logically, then we cannot use instruments, it's got a song about it. The man of soft by his own logic, since he silenced himself. So if we apply the idea that silence gives consent, then somebody might want to come and borrow my bicycle. That's a bicycle if you don't recognize it. And so instead, he takes my car. And I take him to court. And his argument says, He authorized the use of his bicycle, but he did not say not to take his car. And so since he was silent about that, I felt I could take his car. How far do you think that would go before a judge in a court? I don't think it would go very far. And how far will that reasoning go the day of judgment when we stand before the judge of all the earth, and I don't want to risk it. I don't want to risk it. So I'm satisfied to say there were scriptures didn't authorize. I'm content deleted out. I'm continuing to live within the guidelines that God has given in the Bible, which is the revelation of God's mind. And there is nothing more important than the salvation of my soul. It's urgent that we respect what God has said, Without man's quibbling and imposing his own reasoning, to alter what God has said. There may be some in the audience tonight, who have not been living according to God's word, who don't follow his teaching. And we close by extending God's invitation. The one here needs to respond to His invitation to confess things wrong in your life, or even to become a child of God. As he said, In arc 1616 He believes a little tired shall be saved. If you need to respond when you come we stand together as we say


Transcribed by https://otter.ai