Unknown Speaker  00:03
Thanks, Andy for leaving that song. That's that text of Scripture is one of my favorites. And we'll be looking at that tonight. If you open up your Bibles to Luke chapter one, begin reading there in verse 46. In just a moment. appreciate this opportunity to speak to you all tonight, a lots changed since the last time I had the opportunity to stand up here and talk to you, it's probably been at least two years. And honestly, it's something I kind of dread a little bit, but it's something I'm thankful for. It's an opportunity to dive deeper into a section of Scripture, and learn more about it and share that with you. So let's read Luke chapter one, beginning of verse 46. And Mary said, My soul magnifies the Lord and my spirit rejoices in God my Savior, for he has looked on the humble estate of his servant. For behold, from now on, all generations will call me blessed. For he who is mighty has done great things for me and holy is his name. And his mercy is for those who fear him from generation to generation. He has shown strength with his arm, he has scattered the proud in the thoughts of their hearts. He has brought down the mighty from their thrones, and exalted those of humblest state, he has filled the hungry with good things. In the rich, he has sent away empty. He has helped his sermon Israel in remembrance of his mercy, as he spoke to our fathers, to Abraham into his offspring. This is a beautiful song that contains great emotion, namely, joy, but also relief, and hope. And it's personal for Mary. But it's also it's also has a greater picture a greater context in so I'm excited to look at it closer with you. But first, a disclaimer. You know, I don't remember hearing a lesson on this topic or studying it on my own. And that's one reason why chose it. And I was trying to wonder, you know, wonder why that could be. And maybe it's because certain religions placed such a great importance on Mary. And so the disclaimer is, obviously, we don't worship Mary, the mother of Jesus. But I do think we can learn from her and learn from her example and her words, as we would mini Bible characters, I saw a Somnus or someone else. And she is a great example for us that we can learn from. So jumping into the lesson, I do want to start with a little bit of background information. This is referred to as the Magnificat which is just a Latin word. It's the first Latin word in the Latin text, that means magnify. An interesting tidbit of the history is that I found that the public reading of this scripture was banned in multiple countries. And I think it may be still banned in certain countries to this day, and, and that was due to the revolutionary type of language in the second half of it, bringing down the mighty scattering, the proud, those types of revolutionary terms led certain governments to ban the reading of this in public settings. As far as the inspiration of it goes, there's a couple of things that could be the case, Mary could be filled with the Holy Spirit in this moment, and thus inspired to speak these words. And that could logically be the case, the the writer Luke talks about the Holy Spirit more than any other writer in the New Testament, obviously, and acts that's all about the works of the Holy Spirit through the apostles, but also the Gospel of Luke mentions the Holy Spirit more than any other gospel. But you could also say that, that it's possible that that Mary knew the scriptures so well that she was able to contemplate and organize her thoughts and write this down. But if that was the case, she clearly knew scripture, as there are several references to the Old Testament within this, the Psalms, the prophets and others. Either way, I do believe that this this is biblical truth, and certainly inspired of God.

Unknown Speaker  04:27
The literary style of this is poetic, it may remind you of the psalms of even the Proverbs that we read this morning. There's parallelism within it. So synonymous parallel parallelism is, is when a phrase is uttered and then a second phrase that similar to it is mission right after it and that's to support that thought. So an example of that is My soul magnifies the Lord my spirit rejoices in God so soul the spirit magnify to rejoice and soul to spirits. So that's that's parallelism. And then there's also contrasting or antithetical parallelism. So it's opposites that are that are teaching the same lesson. And we see, we saw that in Proverbs this morning. Hatred stirs up strife, but love covers all offenses. And we see that here that He has brought down the mighty from their thrones and exalted those of humblest state. So this is certainly poetic. And I believe it has a chaotic structure. So there's a chiasm in here somewhere and I couldn't quite figure it out. I even emailed, you would probably guess who I emailed to try to figure out his thoughts on it. And he didn't have an answer for me. But there is chiasm in here somewhere. And I realized this is too small, but you could say 52, and 53 is a chiasm. But I noticed there's some similarities at the end between mercy and then Mercy's referenced earlier. So I was trying to tie those together and Abraham's offspring forever, and then generation degeneration, those may be tied together somehow. And so I was trying to figure it out. But I couldn't come to a great chiasm. But I know that it is chaotic in nature. So if you have any thoughts on that, please let me know. Send me an email or something sometime, as you can think about this more. Next, the context. Actually, before we move on to the context, I did want to talk about how this is similar to Hannah's song in Second Samuel two, so I referenced this is similar to some Old Testament texts. And it's most similar to the song of Hannah in students. That's First Samuel, chapter two, after the birth of Samuel, she sings this song, and it's very similar. And I know, I guess I made this chart for the just the people in the first two rows here. In the first section, we see that there is an exhortation and a rejoicing. And then it goes on to proclaiming God's holiness in the second verse, Then we see a warning to the proud into the arrogant, similar to what Mary says, a warning to those who are mighty, but also a an Exaltation of the humble in verses four of Hannah's prayer. And then in verse five, we see God reversing the state of the humble, or the poor, and vice versa. And then the sixth section that I pointed out, it's actually verse nine, talking about God guarding the feet of the faithful ones that's similar to God, showing mercy to those who fear him. And then there's a warning to the wicked who will be cut off, which is similar to the rich being sent away. And then finally, it concludes with a blessing of some type for God's people. And so there's there's a lot of similarities between this song and Hannah's song. And I guess what, what I learned from that is that she's feeling a lot of the same emotions. And she expresses a lot of the same thoughts that that Hannah felt now her situation Hannah situation was more similar to Elizabeth or Rachel's, you know, she wasn't expecting a child. Well, neither was expecting it,

Unknown Speaker  08:26
to expect a child. But it was a different type of surprise, obviously, but there were a lot of similar emotions there. The context of this and Luke chapter one, so Luke begins

Unknown Speaker  08:41
with Gabriel appearing to Zachariah, and then to Mary, telling them of their, their children that were to come both of these would be miraculous pregnancies. And they had reactions that may appear to be the same, but they were different. Zacharias words were, how shall I know this? And Mary's were, how will this be? And they may sound the same, but they are different. It's a reaction of doubt versus maybe a reaction of wonder. And so Zachariah was obviously mute after that. And then we move on past Mary's pronouncement from the angel, two, verses 39 through 45. And she's going to visit Elizabeth. And I know that pregnancy is a challenging time as it is, but if you think about her situation, she was young, maybe a teenager she was poor. not married yet. And so there were some negative connotations with that if people were to find out so it's, it's possible she's going to visit Mary here to maybe conceal the timing of her pregnancy. So she is just Newly expecting and Elizabeth is three months.

Unknown Speaker  10:04
Excuse me, Blake, she's six months in at this point. And so now we come to she comes to Elizabeth, the baby leaps inside of Elizabeth.

Unknown Speaker  10:17
And Elizabeth is filled with the Holy Spirit. And She blesses Mary. And now we see Mary's song in verses 46 through 55. The outline of this song is I've broken it out, you can break it out a lot of different ways. But I've broken it out into the expression of Mary, her expression of what she feels in her heart, primarily joy. And then second, her personal blessings. So she recognizes how God has blessed her specifically as an individual. And then she goes on to describe God's general character, and what God has done throughout history. So first, let's talk about those first couple of verses. Where Mary said, My soul magnifies the Lord in my spirit rejoices in God my Savior. Magnify means to make greater to make larger. And so you ask how can someone make God bigger God's already big? Well, we can't. But if you think of what a magnifying glass does, it makes him appear larger, makes him appear clearer. And so Mary is making God appear larger, making him appear clearer by what she says and how she thinks. And I think we can do this inwardly and outwardly, we can make him appear larger to ourselves and inwardly, so within our hearts within our thoughts, our personal prayers, our personal praise, but we can also magnify Him outwardly, by speaking well of him in various settings. This reminds me of Psalm 34, verses one through three, I will bless the Lord at all times, His praise shall continually be in my mouth. My soul makes its boast in the Lord, let the humble here and be glad, oh, magnify the Lord with me, and Let us exalt his name together, we can make God a higher priority in our lives, and thus magnifying him. And not only on Sundays when we praise together, but we can also do it inwardly in our lives, and also to others every day. We can be a lens or a magnifying glass for God, we can make God appear larger, that's just a humbling thought to think about, and then rejoicing. So rejoicing is an act, but it's also an emotion. And if I asked you to list right now, think about the most joyful moments in your life. Those moments when you felt the most joyous, or you celebrated something, I imagine that most of us would list, a birth of a child or a grandchild, or niece or nephew, children bring great joy to our lives. It's overwhelming. And I think about it in my life. And that's just a feeling that I hope I never forget. Those are life changing events. And we see it in Scripture. And we see it with with Mary and Elizabeth, but also Hannah and Rachel, and several others. What else is on that list, and I imagine I would hope that your salvation is also on that list. I remember mine clearly. The night after I was baptized, laying in bed. And I remember my mom coming in, I can't even I can't even talk about it. It's a great feeling your salvation. And remember other people being saved, that brings great joy, just to think about, and we see it in Scripture over and over again, the Ethiopian eunuch, and the flipping jailer and others and we know that, that not only do we rejoice the angels rejoice with us, when people are saved. And we see both here in Luke chapter one, it's a combination. There's a baby, there's a blessing. But But Mary is being chosen for God's plan of salvation. And so the joy that we see here is so much deeper. And so my question for us is, is do we still rejoice in God that that joy that I had when I was saved? Do I still have joy for being saved? Isaiah chapter 12, verses three and four with joy. You will draw water from the wells of salvation and you will say in that day, give thanks to the Lord. call upon his name, make known his deeds among the peoples proclaim that his name is exalted. I don't think we do it. Do we need to feel Joy, we need to express joy for salvation

Unknown Speaker  15:05
and worship the Lord with joy. Furthermore, I want to point out that it's not just words, expressions that, that the word soul and spirit are used here to express her, her feelings. So it's it's not just going through motions. I think of soul and spirit as being the entire beat the entire being so vocally, inwardly or outwardly thoughts, emotions, expressions, feelings, gratitude. And I think we can learn from this. And I think that other scriptures point us to that. Obviously, we aren't carrying the child of God within us. But we do have instruction from scripture that when we praise God, we're to do so with our hearts. We're supposed to sing with melody in our hearts, in Colossians 316. Let the word of Christ dwell in you richly teaching and admonishing one another. In all wisdom, singing songs, and hymns and spiritual songs with thankfulness in your hearts, to God. worshiping God should come from the heart. And then Psalm 100 says, make a joyful noise to the Lord all the earth, serve the Lord with gladness, come into His presence with singing Psalm 103, Bless the Lord, oh, my soul, and all that is within me, bless His holy name. I don't know about you, but I'm worship God before just going through the motions. And that's, you know, that's a dangerous thing. I think that if we're truly thankful for our salvation as we should, when we come to worship God, we shouldn't be just going through the, through the motions, but it should be from the heart. So moving on to the next section of the lesson, want to recognize it, that Mary was thankful on a personal level. And that's obvious, we've already stated that some. But she does say in verse 48, that she rejoices in God, my Savior, He is looked on the humble assayed of his servant. From now on, all generations will call me blessed. For he was mighty has done great things for me. And holy is his name. And Mary recognized who she was. She talks about her humble state, if my understanding that word literally means I humiliated state, she was poor in this society. And then compared to the greatness of God, who was doing great things for her. She praises him as a result. We see later in the book of Luke that she treasured up events in her heart. And I do wonder, is this a moment that she treasured in her heart that later she told Luke about when he was putting together this this account? And I think that's very possible. And I wonder if she she sang this song to her to her children, or if it was something that she internalized and went back to and reflected on but we see this, this this concept of remembering, blessings, remembering personal blessings. And I think we can learn from that. We'll talk more about God remembering later. But I want to focus for just a second on us remembering our personal blessings. We already read from Psalm one of three. But verse two right after where it said, Bless the Lord, all that's within me, goes to listen specific, specific things to be thankful for and to praise God for. And he says, Oh, my soul and forget not all His benefits, who forgives all your iniquity, who heals all your diseases, and then someone to three just lists out a lot of different things that we should be thankful for. But we tend to forget blessings. As an example, when's the last time you were thankful? You could, you could breathe out of your nose. Well, for me, it was probably the last time I was had, I had a cold or allergies. And I was trying to go to sleep and I couldn't because I couldn't breathe out of my nose. But that's just a small example of things that we tend to forget about blessings that we forget about in our lives. And my family has had a lot of conversations recently about complaining. And it's a struggle for all of us, myself included.

Unknown Speaker  19:51
And one of our strategies to combating complaining is, whenever you hear a complaint, try to think of something good that's happened when Someone says we haven't done anything fun today, or we haven't done anything fun this week, well think about something that we have done and focus on that. Or we think about what other people are doing. Let's let's focus on our blessings for a moment. And that's a great practice, for my family, to focus on thankfulness. But I think it would be good practice for all of us to count our many blessings. So we need to remember that God personally, personally blesses us, and praise and thank him for those. So moving into the last section of this, of this song, we see married describing God, my Savior. And we see some characteristics of God here that support why he would consider her in her loneliness. And I want to recognize five of these there's several more, but I do want to point out five of these and this should be somewhat brief. Ah, the first one will be his strength. Versus 49 says, For he who is mighty has done great things for me. Verse 51, he has shown strength with his arm, that verse 52, He has brought down the mighty from their thrones. God has shown his power over and over again, throughout Scripture and throughout history, from creation, to the plagues, to the exodus to the conquest of Canaan, you could just keep going on, on and on. In the New Testament, you can see his power today. And we are witnesses to God's strength, and it's humbling. And we should certainly praise God for his great strength, we could not be saved without it. Next is His Holiness. Verse 49, says, holy is his name. And I wanted to point this one out. Because when we think about God, my Savior, we cannot be saved without the holiness of God. God's plan of salvation was because of holiness. God is so great, he's so pure, his moral goodness, sets him apart. And that's what holy means. And he's so holy, that people who are unholy cannot have a relationship with him, or even be near him. We see that in the burning bush, and in the temple and other situations and in the Old Testament, where God provided some rituals where people could approach him, but since still separated us from God, and so Jesus was sent to save the world, in order to make us holy, so we are made holy by Jesus blood, and without God's holiness, we cannot be saved. I have a couple of scriptures, here in Hebrews, but for the sake of time will pass through those Hebrews nine, verse 12, in Hebrews 13, verse 12, if you want to read those in your own time, but we should certainly magnify God for His Holiness. Third, I want to look at God's mercy. God can have the great all the strength and he does in his holy, but without His mercy, we cannot be saved. Mercy is showing compassion towards someone in need, showing forgiveness to someone when it's within your power to punish them. And in verse 50, in verse 54, we see, and His mercy is for those who fear him from generation to generation, he has helped us servant Israel, in remembrance of his mercy. That's in verse 54. We recently heard a lesson on God remembering his people. And God doesn't forget people. But simply what that means in the in the passages that we read about is that God chose that time to act upon a promise. And so that's, that's when we see the word, God, remembering. And we'll talk about that more in just a moment. But an Exodus says God remembered his covenant with Abraham. And so he delivered the people from Egyptian bondage. But at the burning bush, God told Moses, I have surely seen the affliction of my people who are in Egypt, and I've heard their cry because of their task myth taskmasters. I know their sufferings, and I've come down to deliver them out of the hand of the Egyptians and bring them up, out of that land to a good land, a land flowing with milk and honey. God sees his people in a helpless state, and chooses to save them out of His mercy. And here in Luke, God sees Mary and her humble estate.

Unknown Speaker  24:47
God sees us as helpless people and he remembers his promise to Abraham, and he's sending Jesus to save the world. Features Chapter Two verses four and five. But God, being rich in mercy, because of the great love, which He loved us, even when we were dead in our trespasses made us live together with Christ, by grace you have been saved. And then First Peter chapter one, blessed to be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ according to His great mercy. He has caused us to be born again to a living hope, through the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead. Let's remember to magnify God and rejoice in his mercy. The next let's notice, is justice. Verse 48. says For he has looked on the humble a state of his servant. For behold, from now on, all generations will call me blessed. Verse 51, he has shown strength with his arm he is scattered the proud in the thoughts of their hearts. He has brought down the mighty from their thrones and called an exalted those of humblest state. He has filled the hungry with good things in the rich, he has sinned away empty. The people in Mary's time we're not expecting their King to come from a family, like Joseph and Mary had. And maybe at first, Mary was surprised to be the mother of the Messiah. But she recognizes here that such a thing is not unusual for God. God throughout history has exalted the humble. Gods God can be seen as the great reverser. And that's what I had on my cover. sigh God is the great reverser. The kingdom of God is reversal a reversal of values where the last will be first. The first will be last the humble be exalted, the hungry will be filled, and unexpected heroes are found in every book of the Bible. David was a shepherd but Saul was the tall and handsome man. The apostles had humble backgrounds we can go on and on beatitudes the kingdom belongs to the poor in spirit, the meek shall inherit the earth the pure in heart shall see God. The tendency of man. Our temptation is to exalt the rich, to speak highly of the powerful of the wealthy, and to ignore the poor and outcast. But God. God does the opposite because of his justice. Psalm 146 Verse six through nine, God executes justice for the oppressed, he gives food to the hungry, the Lord says prisoners free. The Lord opens the eyes of the blind, the Lord lifts up those who are bowed down. The Lord loves the righteous, the Lord watches over the sojourners He upholds the widow and the fatherless, but the way of the wicked he brings to ruin the message of Christ the gospel, it's full of hope. But it isn't intended to make us feel better about ourselves, we should be motivated to change. The world was turned upside down by the message of Jesus, by the apostles in the early Christians. In fact, they were accused of that and accept or 17 in verse six, and we cannot accurately preach the gospel without preaching the message of God's justice. He's not partial toward the rich, or the powerful in this in this world, and we shouldn't either. So let's recognize God's justice and magnify Him, and show justice to others. And then finally, I want to recognize God's faithfulness in the last two verses of this section. He has helped to serve in Israel in remembrance of his mercy, as he spoke to our fathers, to Abraham and to his offspring. Mary recognizes God's promises to Abraham, that all nations of the earth will be blessed through his seat. And I think she realizes here that she's playing a large part in the fulfillment of that promise. And so we should certainly magnify God for His faithfulness, we should be thankful for it, and we can depend on him. So I did skip over a few things in the in the name of time, but I hope that we can learn from Mary's example. And that this time spent together reading through this, this song has been helpful for all of you.

Unknown Speaker  29:45
We aren't again, we aren't giving birth to God's son, but I know that we shouldn't we can and should magnify God and we should be able to rejoice in him. We should be sincere in our worship, And we should be humble when we offer praise to God. And when we interact with others, only the humble can truly magnify God. Worship is intentional. It's personal, it's emotional. It's something we do from the heart. So let's recognize how God has blessed us in our lives and praise him and speak well of him to others, we can make him appear larger, in clear. Hebrews 13, verse 15, leave you with this. It says through him, let us continually offer up a sacrifice of praise to God. That is the fruit of the lips that acknowledge his name. It's not just a one time thank you or one time acknowledgement of God it is continual praise. So let's praise God the Savior, for his eternal strength in holiness, mercy, and justice and faithfulness. We now offer an invitation if you're not a Christian, we offer the opportunity for you to do that tonight. If you believe that Jesus is the Son of God and confess that faith in repent of your sins, you can be obedient to that tonight. Or if you would like the the prayers of the congregation for any reason. We make that opportunity available now if you would come forward while we stand in saying the cementation song


Transcribed by https://otter.ai