Jeremy Sweets  00:07
Good morning. It's good to see everyone here today, and certainly good that we can gather together and worship our God. Always feel a little bit weird saying good morning. But we do have a few more minutes right before we hit new. But it's good to be here and it's good to worship our God. Yogi Berra said, When you come to a fork in the road, you take it. In the book of Proverbs, we find a fork in the road. And there's really two paths that are discussed there is the path of wisdom. And there it's the path of folly. And more than Yogi Berra not just taking it, but the Bible says, We need to take the path of wisdom, we need to choose what is right. When we look at the book of Proverbs, we see that there are really two kinds of statements that are found there are two kinds of ways that that wisdom is laid out. The first one we're probably most familiar with is that short pithy statement of good advice. It's something that will help us with our neighbors with with our own health, with our strength, and with dealing with with even with God. But there are larger sections found in Proverbs as well. And these are often found in the form of a discourse from a father to the son, or even wisdom being personified as she cries out in the streets. And as she proclaims what is good, and REITs. We're going to be looking at the first of those discourses in Proverbs, and that's found in Proverbs one in verses eight through 19. Proverbs one verses eight through 19. And this deals with the folly of Bad Company, the folly of Bad Company. This is the first of those fatherly admonitions that we find. In the book. I will mention that I did preach this at Oak Avenue as part of their Wednesday night series. And when I walked in the door, I was curious why everyone was avoiding me. The Bulletin article there that advertises said avoid bad company with Jeremy sweets. They didn't really avoid me, but this did really appear in the bullets in there. So we're going to talk about and I changed the title a little bit to the folly of bad company. But we're going to look at that that topic this morning. As we look at the overall structure of what's found here, we find that it starts with wisdoms instruction, the wisdom that the Father gives to the son in this first section is actually framed by two statements of my son here, my son, you see that in verse eight and then again in verse 10. After he tells him the good advice I take, he tells him about the folly that occurs with the foolish the enticement and the lower that they will provide. And then it comes back to good advice wisdoms instruction in verses 15 and 16. And again, in verse 15, we find that that statement, or that those few words, my son, here, my son, and listen, my son, and then finally, this passage concludes with follies in the the ultimate place where folly ends is destruction. And so we find that in this passage, and so let's begin by simply reading this text and Proverbs one. And starting in verse eight. Here, hear my son your father's instruction, and for sake, Not Your Mother's teaching, for they are a graceful garland for your head and pendants for your neck. My son, if sinners entice you do not consent. If they say Come with us, let us lie and wait for blood. Let us ambush the innocent without reason. Like she'll let us swallow them alive and whole, like those who go down to the pit, we shall find all precious goods. We shall fill our houses with plunder, throw in your lot among us, we will have one purse, my son, do not walk in the way with them, hold back your foot from their pans for their feet run to evil, and they make haste to shed blood. For in vain is a net spread on the side of any bird. But these men lion wait for their own blood. They set an ambush for their own lives. Such are the ways of everyone who is greedy for unjust gain. It takes away the life of its possessors. We find in this first section very clearly two paths or choose two ways and that is the path of wisdom and the path of falling. It's within those two paths that I really want to look at our text this morning. It really comes down to a series of contrast. So I want to use those contrast between wisdom and folly to look at our points this morning. So the first contrast I would notice is the motivation behind what we do and why we do it. There is a discussion of the fear of the Lord versus fear of exclusion or fear of being left out with the crowd. Notice in Proverbs one and verse seven, a foundational verse that really sets the the theme for the entire book, fear the Lord, the fear of the Lord is the beginning of knowledge, fools despise wisdom, and instruction. Proverbs tells us good advice. But it's more than just snippets of good advice. The orientation with which we must live our life is first and foremost, one with God in plain view, God is at the forefront, and we must orient our lives so that he is first place, and we must have a healthy respect and fear for him. And that orders the rest of our life once that is in place. That is true wisdom. Within the book, I counted that there were 20 times that fears the Lord or fear of the Lord curves. It's a foundational theme. We saw it in that opening passage in chapter one and verse seven, we see it again in 1523. The fear of the Lord is instruction and wisdom, and humility comes before honor. When I preach this, I'll mention this real quick. When I preach this at Oak Ave, Jessica said, You really need to have all those verses there. So if I didn't get that correction added to add all my verses, so if you do need the verses, I would be happy to give you my notes, because I may go through these a little fast. Okay. So the fear of the Lord. The fear of the Lord also leads us to a way of living a way of turning away from what is wrong and turning to what is right. Notice these proverbs three in verse seven, Be not wise in your own eyes, fear the Lord and turn away from evil. And proverbs 29 and 25, the fear of man lays a snare but whoever trusts in the Lord is safe. And again in 2317, Let not your heart in be sinners, but continue in the fear of the Lord all the day. It is the fear and the respect of God that should motivate us, that should lead us to action. But what happens far too often, far too often, we live in fear of being excluded from the group of not fitting in. And that leads us down a dangerous path. We notice that there were those in the New Testament that had this fear. One passage we find is when Jesus instructs those that were afraid of persecution, or afraid of those that might harm them. In Matthew 10, and 28. Jesus says, And do not fear those who kill the body, but cannot kill the soul. rather fear him who can destroy both soul and body in hell. Now, this passage talks about not a fear of exclusion, but but a fear of persecution. But it puts God as the primary place in which we should fear the primary one, fear him because he is able to do more harm to us than any other person than any other crowd. We also do see fear of rejection. And even in a religious context and the Gospel of John, this is found several times. And John nine, you may remember that there was a man that was born blind, but Jesus healed him. And the religious leaders were trying to figure out is this the one that was healed that a miracle actually take place? And they even called his parents and said, did this occur? Was it Jesus that healed this man, and they didn't want to answer the question. They said, they differed. They said, Ask him, and they didn't want to get involved. In verse 22. It tells us why they said that. His parents said these things because they feared the Jews, for the Jews had already agreed that if anyone should confess Jesus to be the Christ, he was to be put out of the synagogue, they were afraid that they would be excluded from the crown. We see this again in John 1242. Nevertheless, many even of the authorities believed in him being Jesus, but the fear of the Pharisees they did not confess it so that they would not be put out of the synagogue. Notice that the fear controlled their actions kept them from doing what is right and in Proverbs that leads them in the direction of what is wrong. Fear can be a strong motivator. Sometimes the fear of rejection can be so overwhelming that we find ourselves doing things that we never thought we would do. You might look at Proverbs one and say that's an extreme example murder. I'm not a murderer, I'm not going to go into that. But you can, you can be so motivated by that fear of being left out that you would go so far, there are many young people that find themselves in gangs that are they're led in directions that they never thought they'd go. You see, even with the example of John nine, the parents did not vouch for their own sun and the healing that took place because they were afraid of the crowd. Yes, we need to put the fear of the Lord first and not be so concerned with the fear of exclusion from others. The second contrast I see is that of the enticement that occurs, the enticement, the bad crowd definitely makes foolish decisions, but they're not stupid. They can make a strong case for joining them. They are expert marketers. They say come and join us. It will be great. And notice the ways that they entice first of all, in verse 11, they entice with a sense of adventure. It says Come with us, let us lie in wait for blood, let us ambush the innocent without reason. They lie in wait and you can see and feel that sense of danger, that sense of anticipation, the blood would have certainly been flowing adrenaline pumping as they waited for their innocent victims come with us, you'll have a sense of adventure. Secondly, in verse 12, they say Come be with us and you will have great power and you can exhibit your power over others. Like she'll let us swallow them alive and whole, like those who go down to the pits. It's been the MO of bullies for a long time that they make themselves feel stronger by making by putting others down. And so we find it here in this passage as well. These evil companions demonstrate their power by hurting the innocent by jumping, the unexpected and by preying on the weak. Third, we see the enticement of money in verse 13. There it says we shall find all precious goods, we shall fill our houses with plunder, you know it's profitable, it can be profitable to join the bad crowd. You can fill your house with stolen goods. Verse 19, refers to unjust game as a description of the kind of game that they get. It may not be legal or ethical, but it does produce game. There are many young people that have determined and saying, You know what, I can make more money, doing something illegal stealing cars or selling drugs, and I can working a job. And so they look at that and they weigh that and they say there's more money over here. That's the way that Satan entices? Well, I think the strongest enticement is found in verse 14, throw in your lot among us, we will all have one purse. And so there's the enticement of community, be one of us, you can be part of the crowd, you can be part of us, the one invited can feel like they belong. You know, gangs thrive in poor neighborhoods where there's a lack of family connections, there's a lack of a sense of community, and they offer that they say, Come be one with us be part of the crown. Well, James describes the same process in James four and verse 14 and 15. There it begins with the question of where to sin come from? Is it God? Does God tempt us to sin? And the answer is absolutely not. God does not want us to sin. God is good. So where does sin come from? Sin comes from our own desires. And James for in verse 14. But each person is tempted when he is lowered and enticed by his own desire, then desire when it has conceived gives birth to sin. Temptation strikes that our hearts and our lust, our desires, and I want to point out that these desires are not bad within themselves. It's not bad to seek adventure. It's not wrong to seek to exercise power. It's not wrong to seek after money, and it's certainly not wrong to seek after community. But Satan has twisted these desires. They are not rolling over themselves and say you can have this through through sinful actions is through sin that you can attain. And so we need to understand that Satan takes what is good and right and he twists it for His purpose. And he promises that you'll, you'll love benefits. He'll be great, you'll have great game, but he simply is a liar. Well, in contrast to that, we see wisdoms call and lower wisdom also so implores with others. Come and hear calm and listen because it is good for you. In Proverbs one and verse eight, here, my son your father's instruction, and foresight, Not Your Mother's teaching. Unlike the illicit crowd of the evil gain, wisdom provides the great value of strength and virtue. And notice how this is described in verse nine. For they are a graceful garland for your head and pendants for your neck. I think that provides a great contrast with the unjust gain, the plunder of have taken from the innocent. Wisdom, on the other hand says that that if you will listen, it will be a graceful garland for your head and pendants for your neck. When we listen to wisdom, we have a stronger character. We have a stronger sense of integrity. There is a sense within us that we are doing what's right. And that is valuable, that is valuable, and we need to understand its value. Wisdom continues by crying out in the street. In fact, in the passage right after our tech starting in verse 20. The second part of chapter one deals with wisdom personified, crying out in the streets. Notice in verse 20. Wisdom cries aloud in the street in the market, she raises her voice at the head of the noisy street, she cries out at the entrance of the city gate she speaks how long those simple well, you love being simple. If you turn in my reproof, Behold, I will pour out my spirit to you. I will make my words known to you. Wisdom implores listen to me and there is an enticement there a good enticement, a good draw a good attraction, and Proverbs 19 numbers 20 listen to advice and accept instruction, that you may gain wisdom in the future. Yes, sin has an enticement of its own but let us not overlook the draw the good draw that wisdom has. The next contrast we see is that of walking in wisdom versus running to folly. Proverbs describes these two paths, and it does describe it as paths or ways of wisdom and even a folly. Proverbs four is one of those passage extended passages that talks about the path. And proverbs four in verse 11, it says this, I've taught you the way of wisdom, I have led you in the path of righteousness. When you walk, your steps will not be hampered, and if you run you will not stumble. In verse 14, Proverbs four, do not enter the path of the wicked, and do not walk in the way of the evil, avoid it, do not go on it, turn away from it and pass on. And again later in this chapter in Proverbs four in verse 18, it describes these paths is the path of light, and the path of dark. There it says. But the path of the righteous is like the light of dawn, which shines brighter and brighter until full day. The way of the wicked is like deep darkness, they do not know over what they stumble. You'll notice about the path of righteousness that is the path of light. It is the path where you can see your step and step securely. You can walk integrity, with integrity, and live in the right way. But the path of darkness is not like that. There is no security of your step. There is no stable ground. If you're walking in the dark and there's a hole in the ground. You may trip over, you may fall if there's a rock in the way, you can't see it to avoid it. There is the sense of evil within the way of darkness. It is something that seeks to hide from others and not not to allow others to see what you're doing. And I think this makes it helpful point for me when it comes to light and darkness. If you're ever in a situation where you're trying to do something in the dark or hide something from others You don't want someone to see what you you have on your screen on the computer screen, or you don't want to others to know what kind of show you're watching. Or you don't want your parents to know where you're actually going. If you're hiding something, that's a great indicator that you shouldn't be doing it. The path of righteousness is the path of integrity. When you do what's right, you have no fear of others finding out, you have no desire to have to hide what you are doing. It is the path of darkness that seeks to hide. But it is the path of light that continues on in the right way, with no fear of others finding out this theme of the path and the right way is found elsewhere in Scripture. For example, in Psalm 23, there are talks about our Lord as our shepherd. It says in verse three, He leads me in paths of righteousness for his namesake. It's also picked up in the New Testament and Matthew 713, and 14, Enter by the narrow gate for the gate is wide, and the way is easy that leads to the destruction. And those who enter by it are many For the gate is narrow in the way is hard that leads to life, and those who find it are few. And so if we're to consider these paths, we need to choose the path of light, and of what is right, and the path that is difficult, but leads to life. In contrast to all that the evil, run to folly. In Proverbs one in verse 15, my son, do not walk in the way with him hold back your foot from their pass, for their feet run to evil, and they make haste to shed blood, their feet run to evil, and they are very quick to shed blood. I'll note about this running to evil, that there is no slow deliberation. There is no hesitation of conscience. There is an attitude of act first and ask questions later. And all of that can be very dangerous and very unwise, when you act without thinking. And when you run to evil, you're running to danger. And so we see the problem with running to folly with running to fall. Well notice one other contrast we find within this text and as the consequences, the consequences, we see that there are the consequences of life on the path of what is good and right, and the consequence of destruction for those that are foolish. Wisdom is depicted as a path of light of life. In Proverbs four in verse 13, keep hold of instruction, do not let go. guard her for she is your life. Again in Proverbs 1027. The fear of the Lord prolongs life, but the years of the wicked will be short. The Proverbs tells us that you'll have longer life in general, if you follow the good path, folly can lead to destruction, even physical death. And so we need to be aware of that. But I think life in this passage is broader than simply having a long life or number of days. The way of falling what is good is the way of the good life. Not just many more days, but the good life. It is finding joy in the Lord, purpose in his kingdom, and fulfillment in his love. It's not only a long life, but it is a good life, a life of contentment and peace in the Lord. The way of the wicked, though, is far different than that. It is the way of destruction. While it may seem like the evil crowd can get everything they want. And that's part of the reason for the instruction. Don't Don't be envious of sinners. It seems like they have it all. They get everything and they're not doing what's right. But I want to tell you that the the results of what they have is far different than the appearance or what they were promised. And proverbs one verse 17 For in vain is a net spread in the sight of any bird. But these men lie in wait for their own blood. They set an ambush for their own lives. Such are the ways of everyone who is greedy for unjust gain. It takes away the life of its possessors though real ambush, the real Ambush is against themselves. And you might think well that's foolish. No one would set up a trap right in the sight of the one that's there, but that's what they are doing. They are in full awareness of what they're doing and that it's wrong and yet they persist, yet they present They are shooting themselves in the foot, we might say, they're lying in wait for their own blood. I'm healed. I'm here to tell you that despite appearances, the sinner never really wins. Anger, jealousy, resentment, theft, murder. These all bring harm on the one that commits the very sin. Guess there's other harm done to others as well. But the sinner always brings harm on themselves. They destroy their character. They bring harm on themselves, and they endanger the relationship with God. I've said it many times before. And I'll probably say it many times again, that sinners are both perpetrators and victims. We are not forced into sin, we choose sin. But we are a victim of our sin as well. And we harm ourselves. The Message Bible, which is really more of a paraphrase and in translation, it says this in verse 17, no one robs a bank with everyone watching. Yet that's what these people are doing. They're doing themselves in. When you grab all you can get, that's what happens, the more you get, the less you are. And it's that last phrase that really, that I really noticed there, the more you get, the less you are, we may have all the riches of the world and the friendships of those in the world. But if we do that, at the cost of folly are choosing the path of folly, we are becoming less and less of who we were meant to be. There's a destruction of our character in the very corrupting of the image of God as we have that relationship with Him. The more you get, the less you are. Well with that in mind, let's notice a few lessons that we might look at with this lesson. First of all, choose friends wisely. Choose friends wisely. And proverbs 12 And verse 26. The righteous choose their friends carefully, but the way of the wicked leads them astray. You know, it matters who you spend your time with. Choose people that will encourage you that will help you grow and your character grow in your relationship to the Lord. But also be a good friend. That means you should be the kind of person that's going to encourage others point people to what's right and help them grow. Bible says in Proverbs 17, As iron sharpens iron, so one man sharpens another. And so we are to encourage each other, sharpen one another, and be good friends. And I think it's important that we consider our friends and choose them wisely. But with that in mind, let us show Christ to sinners. Part of the reason I, I changed the title slightly from avoid bad company to to the folly of bad companies, because this is a little bit of a difficult lesson and that we can't simply exclude ourselves from everyone that is doing wrong. We must be willing to show Christ to others. And First Corinthians five and verse nine, it says this, I wrote you in my letter not to associate with sexually immoral people. Not at all meaning the sexual and moral of this world, or greedy and swindlers or adulterers since then you would need to go out of the world. We don't need to avoid everyone that commits something that is wrong. Now we do need to avoid the crowds. As they head off into sin, we shouldn't join that crowd that should be avoided. So we need to be careful how we do this. It takes wisdom doesn't it to the side and understand the best way to influence others for good. But we need to make the effort. We can't hide from all sinners, nor should we. We need to allow Jesus the beauty of Jesus to be seen in us and display that to other people. In Second Corinthians 13, verse five, examine yourself to see whether you are in the faith. Test yourselves or you not realize this about yourselves that Jesus Christ is in you. When others see us, they should see disciples seeking to display the character of Christ and show that to other people. So we need to be people that show Christ to others. I told you it's difficult to decide to choose wise friends but yet still not cut out everyone else and that takes wisdom. The next points we're going to look at may may help us make some of those decisions, how we go about that. First of all, develop a good reputation. develop a good reputation. A good reputation will attract those that that want to do what's right. And for those that that are following the bad crowd, and they see the folly of it, or they're not comfortable with that, they will seek you. And they'll seek you out to ask questions about why you're living the way that you do. In Proverbs 22, and verse one, it says, a good name is to be chosen rather than great riches in favor is better than silver, or gold. If you're developing a good reputation, it says it's more valuable than riches. You'll notice in our passage that the centers offer riches, we'll be able to have all this bounty, this stolen good, this illicit game. But a good name is better than that. We need to understand that and even those that are caught up in that foolishness, I think can see that sometimes. And so develop a good reputation so that others might not ask us to do what's evil, and might seek us for what is good. We need to practice integrity, you should do what's right, regardless of the circumstances, don't change who you are based on whether the crowd is inviting you to do what's wrong or not, don't change who you are based on who's around, or the circumstances, do what's right at all times. And proverbs 11 And verse three, the integrity of the upright guides them, but the crookedness of the treacherous destroys them. Far too often we allow others to guide us. But Proverbs says, it's our integrity, our desire to do what's right, that should be our guide. So practice integrity. We also need to control the activity as much as possible. I know it's not always possible. But when it comes to influencing others for good, it matters how that's done. I don't think it's the wisest thing to try to influence sinners for good. While you're lying in ambush, don't say, Well, I'm going to go there, I'm going to follow the crowd and try to maybe talk to talk to them about good things while we're there. Now avoid that situation. But try to invite others to do things that are good and wholesome, invite them for a meal together, go to a ball game, and vitam to a Bible study, as much as possible, control the activity don't fall follow sinners into their sin. I think those that struggle with with drinking and drunkenness, we want to influence them as much as we can. But don't go to a bar with them to say, I'm going to try to influence there as much as possible, control the activity. And also pray about your influence. You have a tremendous influence. And you also can be influenced by others. Pray that this is always for good, and not for harm. We have the potential to influence others. And we need to be thinking about that, praying about that, and doing what we can to make sure the influences in the right direction toward God, and what is right, so pray to him about that. But pray also that she might not be tempted or led into the temptation simply to please others to do what is right because the the crowd wants you to do that. Pray about your influence. In First Thessalonians 517 It says pray without ceasing. And when we consider all the opportunities that are around us that are bound for both good and bad and influence, there's no wonder the passage says pray without ceasing. We need to be praying all the time, about our influence both how we are influenced and others and how we also are influenced. Proverbs has a lot of great wisdom, and I think is wisdom that we still need today. You know, we've we've advanced a lot in technology and things like that. But we haven't gone past this lesson right here. We've not grown up too much as a society, we still need this word. Now. I hope it's been beneficial for you. If you're here this morning, and you're not a Christian, you have an opportunity to put God as your first priority. And you can do that by hearing the gospel message believing that Jesus is the Christ repenting of your sins, confessing Jesus as the Christ and being baptized in the water for forgiveness of sins. If you're here this morning and you are a Christian, but you're not living as you should you also need to make corrections to change your life and do what's right. I know this congregation would love to pray with you and for you. We all want to get to heaven, and we all want to do that together. Third, any subject to the invitation please come as we stand and sing at this time.


Transcribed by https://otter.ai