It is always such a blessing and a privilege to come and worship God as He made us for the purpose of our praising him, learning he is well doing His will and honoring him. So we're so grateful for the opportunity to be here today, a lot of people are sick and dealing with various illnesses, we pray for them. That our task today is we have remembered Jesus Christ, what he did for us in the Lord's Supper, we also want to remember his word. In the Gospels, we find some of the most compelling in demanding teachings on the nature and the cost of discipleship, I find myself looking at these texts with some frequency. And I remind myself that everything that Jesus did for you, and for me is motivated by his love and kindness and compassion for your soul. But He lives down in the gospels, some very strict requirements to be to be part of His kingdom. And I want to look at a passage this morning, that deals with that in Mark chapter eight. And here we go. I got one right here. I think if it works, this one probably works better. Thank you, David. But I want to look at a passage in Mark chapter eight, verses 34 through 30. And I've titled this lesson, the cost of discipleship and the worth of the of your soul. As you look at these verses, which are very familiar to us. We recognize that they're fairly familiar to us. And yet the the teaching there is, at times utterly shocking as we think about what God requires from each of us. And so as we are winding down another year, we realize that we're one day closer to meeting our maker. And surely we all need to reflect on our lives and consider our commitment to God. You know, there's a lot of misunderstanding what it means to be a Christian or how to become a Christian. Well, to be a follower of Jesus Christ, we just need to go to his teachings. And Mark chapter eight that we'll be looking at this morning, contains, I think, very plain teaching that deals with what's involved in becoming a Christian, the cost of the requirement to become a Christian. God's love His mercy is incredible. His grace is is amazing. But he wants us to give him complete and total trust as we serve him. So I want you to look with me, I've got my Bible, open the box. Yep, he might do that as well. I'm guessing the scriptures on the screen. But in the back, the the background for this particular text in March Yep, eight verses 34 through 38 is verses 27 through 30. So when Jesus lays down the requirements, but discipleship, this was the backdrop of that. So in verse 27, of March chapter eight, he said, Now Jesus and his disciples went out to the towns of Ciceri of Philippi. And on the road, he asked his disciples saying to them, who demand say that I am? So they answered John the Baptist, but some say Elijah and others one of the prophets. He said to them, But who do you say that I am? Peter answered and said to him, You are the Christ. Then he strictly warned them that they should tell no one about him marks accounts a little bit different than Matthews than a verse 31. On the heels of this teaching, it says that Jesus began to teach them that the Son of Man must suffer many things and be rejected by the elders and chief priests and scribes, and be killed. And after three days rise again, he spoke this, this word openly. Then Peter took Him aside and began to rebuke Him. But when he had turned around and looked at his disciples, He rebuked Peter saying, Get behind Me, Satan, but you are not mindful of the things of God, but of the things of man. So again, Jesus is laying down what I'm calling the requirement of discipleship, the cost of discipleship, you have to consider and contemplate what's involved in becoming a follower of Jesus. If you have your Bibles open, I'm going to go ahead and read a few more verses and put some points together from this lesson. So in verse 34, which I don't have this one on the screen at this point, it says the Summon, he summoned the crowd with his disciples and said to him, If anyone wishes to come after me, he must deny himself and take up his cross and follow Me. For whoever wishes to save his life will lose it, but whoever loses his life for My sake in the gospels will save it. But what does it profit a man to gain the whole world and forfeit his soul? For what will a man give in exchange for his soul? For whoever is ashamed of me in my words in this adulterous and sinful generation, the Son of Man will also be ashamed of him when he comes in the glory of his Father, with the whole The angels, we're going to start with that text here, verses 34 through 38. and delve into two. So to seek to understand what Jesus is teaching us over here, what is the message, or what messages come to come to us from this context. So again, Jesus is really laying down the fundamental requirements of what it takes to become a Christian, and our culture we have gotten so far away from, from these teachings, we have to come back to this from time to time, so he's really talking about the cost of discipleship, whether required requirements of discipleship is something else, I want to get four points in this lesson. But another significant point I want us to think about that Jesus is going to address is the infinite worth of your soul. And again, we kind of just read past those teachings we read past, we kind of go past those those thoughts too quickly. And so these lessons over here I think, are very compelling for us. Appreciate the songs that brother Swofford led for us. This one, they do actually tie in with so much that I want to talk about this evening that the need to be faithful to God to stand strong in the face of trial and ridicule and persecution. And I think what Jesus implies in these teachings is that trials and hardships, persecution and rejection is normal for followers of Christ. And he wanted his followers to know that suffering and death wasn't only his lot, but it may be their lot as well. And so Jesus lays down what I'm calling some plain, but very hard requirements of discipleship. And while again, these teachings are familiar with us, for with us, we look at them in the gospels, they are in many ways are utterly shocking, in terms of what Jesus is telling us to do. And so it reminds us that Jesus isn't interested in in any fairweather Christians, he said that no one has to put his hand to the plow and looking back is fit for the kingdom of God. So let's look at this text this morning. And the first point I want to bring to your attention is to suggest that discipleship, so we're talking about, in some ways, how to become a Christian what was involved in becoming a follower of Christ, but discipleship involves radical self denial, total self sacrifice and unswerving devotion to Jesus Christ. Again, this very plain teaching, but it's very compelling for us to think about Jesus didn't want anybody to misunderstand what would be involved if you became a disciple if I became a disciple of Jesus, that the rewards literally out of this world, but the suffering and the persecution may be so intense, that it might put you in prison or me in prison, it may even lead to our death. So look at this text over here. And Mark chapter eight, verse 34, says to the summon the crowd with his disciples and said to them, If anyone wants to come after me. So this phrase, again, is, is reminding us that life is about choices and becoming a follower of Christ is an act of the will. Yes, it is emotion, we think about Jesus sacrifice that the blood that he offered on the cross, but becoming a follower of Christ is an act of the will, which says, I'm going to do whatever my God tells me to do, I'm going to follow Jesus at all costs. So we're going to reminds us, when Jesus makes the statement, if anyone wants to come after me, he's saying, If anyone wants to be my disciple, if anyone wants to follow me, then he lays down these requirements. But it's a it's a reminder, that we choose to be a disciple of Jesus. Or we choose to be a follower of Mohammed, or we choose to follow Hinduism. Or we choose to follow anyone or anything else. Life is one of my phrases is about choices. If we choose to follow God, or we choose not to follow God, we choose to respect the teachings of Jesus, or we choose to reject or ignore the teachings of Jesus. And so that's one of those principles that we need to understand. And I think we need to remember that God is not going to impose his will on you or on me. And so serving Him and OBEYING Him is our choice. We have that choice while we will, while we're still alive. When death comes, it's too late to make any changes. So in this text, he said if anyone wants to come after me, he must deny himself must take up his cross and follow Me. So those are the three in some ways, some shocking commands that Jesus gives in terms of becoming a disciple of Jesus. So the first thing that you see there highlighted in blue is that he must deny himself to become a follower of Christ. What that means is that I must be willing to deny myself. That is a hard thing to do, very hard thing to do. And he's not talking here about denying myself things like coffee, or Coke or food or pleasure. He's talking about self, me, renouncing myself, to stop making myself the object or goal of my life. So to become a follower of Jesus, we have to say, I may want to go in this direction, but God wants me to go in this direction, is a total breakup of my mindset. And so is one writer said it involves a fundamental reorientation of the principle of life. And I think there's one reason why so few people really become followers of Christ, is because it's so hard for them to do, that. We're so self focused and so self absorbed, that we can say, I can make some small sacrifices, Jesus isn't saying to deny yourself a few good things. He's saying, deny who you are. He said, You, you put aside your personality, and who and everything else, so that you, you fashion and shape your mind, to develop the very mind of God. Again, as one writer said, God must be at the center of our lives, and not self. And so when we think about discipleship, then the first thing that Jesus says, If anyone wants to be my disciple, he's got to deny Himself. Again, we could spend a whole hour talking about that. And we recognize the difficulty of Africa, we are so self absorbed and self focused. But becoming a disciple of Jesus means that I just don't give up a few good things in life I give up myself, and I totally yield myself to God's will. Secondly, they're highlighted in yellow, it take up his take up his cross. So Jesus said, If you want to be my disciple, you must deny yourself, you must take up your cross. What does that mean? Jesus literally had to do that on on the road to Golgotha, He carried his own crossed the weight of that which represented this the sins of the world, and incredible suffering that he endured on our behalf. Obviously, he's not asking us to physically take up a cross and carry it through pound although people have done that in different places around the world, especially at the time that we call Easter. But he is telling us that we must take up our cross, what does that mean? What was the cross The cross remit, represented shame, it represented suffering represented all the the hard things in life. And so for us to take up our cross means that we must be willing to take a mindset of suffering, and testing and trials and persecution, am I willing to be persecuted? Am I willing to be laughed at? am I willing to be ridiculed? Am I willing to be thrown into jail for following Jesus? Take up your cross is what Jesus said, That's not easy. Not easy for any one of us. But again, Jesus is laying down the fundamental requirements of being a Christian. And we live in a culture of what I call easy believe ism. If you want to be a Christian, and most denominational churches, you say the sinners prayer, you accept Christ into your heart, and you focus on the love of God, but you don't think about this level of sacrifice that Jesus is talking about over here. But discipleship involves not just self denial, but we take up our cross, which means we're we embrace suffering, we embrace pain, we embrace persecution, and then also in the heels of that, we're told to follow him. So again, what does it mean to follow Jesus, I think primarily means to follow his example to follow his example, is a man who when he was persecuted when he was laughed at when he was spit upon when they slapped him in the face, and when they drove nails to his hands, he didn't retaliate. Some of those that kind of stuff. I mean, it's like, man to get out of my way, you know, but Jesus didn't do that. He allowed those things to happen to him. And so to follow Jesus means that we follow his example his humble endurance of persecution, but we follow his teaching. We follow His words, we follow what his his doctrine. So to be a disciple of Jesus means that we that's The one that we listen to not necessarily religious leaders of the day, and the world that we live in, but we follow Jesus. So I'm suggesting the first point here that discipleship involves this radical self denial. So involve total self sacrifice, and unswerving devotion to Jesus Christ. These are not easy things to do. And again, I'm suggesting that one reason, in my opinion, there are so few real Christians devoted to serving God is because it's so difficult to do. The rewards, again, are out of this world. We've got to focus on what God has in store for us. But this is the nature of discipleship. So Jesus doesn't sugarcoat anything he wants any would be disciples to understand what their commitment is that they are willing to follow Jesus to their death. Are you willing to follow Jesus to the point of death or suffering. And so this is the type of the, the qualities that are involved in being a disciple of Jesus. Secondly, in this context, we need to understand that if we attempt to save our life, we will lose it. And if we lose our life, for Jesus sake, we'll save it. So again, it takes over here, just going through a very familiar passage to most of us. But these are timeless truths that that transform our lives. And we need to think about what Jesus is saying over here. So again, he is talking about the the nature of discipleship, the requirement of discipleship, and he says, Whoever wants to save his life will lose it. What's that mean? What's the context over here? Well, we just looked in verses 27, down to verse 33. Jesus is saying to His disciples, what the people say out there who did it, who did they say that I am a tip. So I'd say John the Baptist, obviously your lives, you're one of the prophets. Who do you say that I am. And Peter said, You are the Christ, the Son of the living God. And Jesus said, upon that profession from Matthew's account, He would build His church. So it was that then he goes on to talk about the the challenges that they would face. But he says, When whoever wants to save his life will lose it in the face of persecution, and intimidation and, and the threat of the loss of life. He's saying that, and that context, we need to be careful not to deny Christ. I think in the first century, this, especially the disciples in the first century, were facing real temptations, when they were faced with the question, do I confess Christ publicly? Or do I deny him? And I think sometimes there were some early disciples who were tempted to deny when they were told, confess Christ or be killed. They wanted to save their lives, and they denied Christ. So they save their physical lives, but they lost their souls. Yet many other early disciples when they were threatened with imprisonment, or death, chose to confess Christ, and they were burned at the stake. But they saved their soul. So that's what he's saying over here, whoever wants to save his life will lose it. In fall we're looking here is about self preservation. And when people threaten me or threaten you, and see, if you profess your faith in Christ, I'm going to kill you. Then Jesus says, Take, take the bullet, take the sword. And don't be overly concerned about protecting your life. So if the, if we tried to save our physical lives, he said, you're going to lose it. But he said, whoever loses his life, for my sake, and the Gospels will save it. So again, it's a reminder that in the face of trial and temptation and testing and persecution, along with the intimidation, we have choices to make, when someone threatens my life, I say, I'm going to rise up, oh man of God is stand strong. I'm not perfect. I'm flawed like everybody else. But in that context, Jesus is when you're faced with that question, do I deny Jesus and and save my life? Or do I profess my faith publicly, in face execution, then we choose to profess our faith in Him and possibly lose our lives. So and this passage in Matthew chapter 10, again, very familiar passage to most of us, and Matthew's account, Jesus said, Therefore, whoever confesses Me before men, him I will also confess before My Father who is in heaven, but whoever denies Me before man him I will also deny before my Father who is in heaven, again, so the nature of discipleship and requires us to be willing to stand up for Jesus to Professor have faith in Him, and to face the consequences. And look at the context over here. Again, for the background of this statement in verse 34, against some shocking teaching from Jesus, he said, Do not think that I came to bring peace on earth, I did not come to bring peace, but a sword, For I have come to sit a man against his father, and a daughter against her mother, and a daughter in law against her mother in law, and a man's enemies will be those of his own household. So when a person decides to become a Christian, a follower of Christ, people kind of get upset about that. It's I've seen some of that in my life. And I'm sure this is common in many ways, places around the world. Maybe it's a reminder that in times of trial, in times of intimidation, our choice is to stand up for Jesus and to be strong in that context, again, to remind remind ourselves, if we're only interested in self preservation, just trying to save our lives, protect our allies from physical death, we're going to lose it. But if we, if we, if we lose our life, for Jesus sake, we're going to save it. So give me some very powerful truths to think about. Number three, I want you to notice from this text in verses 36, and 37, and just trying to think how to word this point, but we I think, what Jesus is telling us here is that we must value ours, our souls above everyone and everything in the world. So here's the questions. And we sometimes sing a song with this title, but some very compelling questions for what does it profit a man to gain the whole world and forfeit his soul? For what command give in return for his soul? So you think about this, these questions and what Jesus is saying over here, that we have to place a value on our souls, that's going to cause us to choose God's way over our way, and not worldly wealth, or power, or success or anything like that. But just think about these questions for just a minute. What does it profit a person? If you can gain the whole world? What does that mean? Okay, all the wealth in the world, all the power in the world, all the success of the world has to offer all the fame? What if you had everything that the world offers you, but you disobeyed God, to terrible trade is eternally horrible decision to make, that he's trying to make us think about these things. And so, this again, he's talking about the cost of discipleship? Well, ultimately, though, in this setting, here, he's calling on us to think about the value of our souls. And so again, to put that in practical terms, what is it worth for you to lose your soul forever? Or for me? What is it worth it? If you gained a million dollars? If you had a house on the lake, if he had a house on the ocean with $10 million in the bank, but you lost your soul? Would that be worth it? So eternal ruin, eternal grief, eternal shame. So what he's saying there is that we have to value our souls. It's not my body, my soul, you can't see my soul. I can't see your soul. It's inside of us. It's our spiritual entity. It's our spiritual being. But he's saying Jesus is telling us could we live in a world of physical things and things that are tangible and houses and building and in money and bank accounts, whether it's electronic, we do know all about that. But he said he, he's telling us that we need to value our souls, above everything else, because we value God first. But we look at these questions. And it's, again reminds us we asked a question, what will a man give in return for his soul? What could you give in return for your soul? A billion dollars? Would you take a billion dollars and then be cast away from God forever? Horrible. But we have to ask that question. What will a man give an exchange for so so the question is, do you value your soul? Do I value my soul above everything else in this create physical creative world? So I think that's one of the things that Jesus is saying over here that we must value our souls above everything, not how much money you make, how many places you travel, how much money you have in the bank, how popular you are, how successful you are, doesn't matter which you have to do is you have to value your soul to the point that says that says I'm going to obey the truth of God, regardless of the consequences. And if somebody takes a gun and says, if you become a Christian John, or bill or whoever, I'm going to kill you, pull the trigger, send me on to eternal glory. And so again, Jesus is telling us, this is one of those truths that we really have to contemplate. He's telling us basically, that we have to value our souls, more than anything in this physical creation. But we don't do that, can we value money, and success and good looks, and all that kind of whatever it may be, or fame, or popularity, all those things are so important to us, and they're meaningless. But your soul is more valuable to you than anything else. So Jesus is telling us that we need to do this one other point, before we wrap up the lesson this morning and review. In this context, being ashamed of Jesus and His words will result in our eternal shame for him. So look at the context over here. Jesus said, For whoever is ashamed of me, in my words, in this adulterous and sinful generation of him, the Son of Man will be, will also be ashamed when he comes in the glory of his Father, with the holy angels. So I want to suggest to you, and maybe remind each of us that the glorious return of Jesus Christ is the most and the final judgment is the most clarifying event for every single person living or dead. Knowing that one day Jesus will come again, and usher in the end of time. And the final judgment gives us instant clarity of what's most important in this life. But we live in a materialistic culture, and it's so easy to forget that. But again, Jesus is telling us that we need to be careful that we value Jesus words, and we're not ashamed of his teaching, are ashamed of himself. So that's the phrase over over here, for whoever is ashamed of me in my words. And then he mixes these phrases, he puts these phrases in there in this adulterous and sinful generation. In Jesus day in time, people were living together outside of marriage, multiple marriages, they were living in all types of sin and debauchery and drunkenness, and revelry, and all that kind of stuff. So Jesus and his disciples, were trying to share the gospel in this culture. Although you look at this phrase, this adulterous and sinful generation, he's talking about the first century. But he's talking about today. That's the culture that we live in. And so Jesus is saying, anyone who's ashamed of me, in my teaching, it says, The Son of Man will also be ashamed when he comes in the glory of his Father, with the holy angels. And so again, what's going on here? Why would these, this disciples be tempted to not speak up and speak out and be ashamed of Jesus teaching? So again, in the context of the first century, these the firt, the early Christians, New Testament Christians were being persecuted by the Jewish establishment, along with the Roman Empire, the political empire. And so there's a lot of pressure that's put on them. So Jesus teaching again, Jesus is the most loving individual who has ever lived. But he lays down the entrance requirements for heaven, and they are somewhat narrow. And you think about this in John chapter 13, verse six, when Jesus was talking to Thomas, and saying that you know how, you know the way to have nowhere on going, and Thomas had Lord, we don't know where you're going, how can we know the way Jesus said to him, I am the way and the truth and the life no one comes to the Father except through me. So Jesus said, there's only one way to heaven that offends people. It's too narrow. Jesus said, I am the way that offends people. People put out by that, oh, I'm not gonna, I'm not going to submit to him. Well, that's what Jesus is saying that the Road to Heaven is a narrow road, anybody can get there, go there if we want to. But we have to choose God's way, and not our way. But so much of what Jesus taught in the New Testament was offensive to the religious world. Jesus taught that marriage is a lifelong commitment between one man and one woman that offends people. Jesus said that unless you repent, you will all likewise perish. that offends people. Jesus taught that He who believes and is baptized will be saved, but he who disbelieves will will be condemned. that offends people. Be careful not to be offended by Jesus. In some ways Today in the culture that we live in how many preachers and pastors discount or downplay the importance of the necessity of baptism, so many of them believe that baptism is baptism is not necessary for salvation, it is necessary. I remember years ago, coming back from a company trip when we lived in Alabama, and talking to one of their fellow salesmen. And we would inevitably talked about Scriptures, the Bible, and in this particular case, baptism. So it's talking about this man who was very religious, and I just mentioned a carry, you know, Jesus says that baptism is necessary for salvation. He says, No, it's not. So we looked at some scriptures, talked about them and had a kind of a heated discussion. So I finally said, well, the carry you prepared to tell Jesus on the Day of Judgment, that baptism is not necessarily necessary for salvation, He said, I am. And of discussion, nothing else to say, Jesus teaching offense people, don't be offended by Jesus. Don't be offended by his his teaching, he shed his blood for you and for me. But we we realize the temptation that we live in, it's easy to view scripture in such a way that we think is just too narrow. The truth is, I'm not God, and you're not God. Jesus did everything possible to get us to be with Him in Heaven. So our challenge is to learn not to be ashamed of Jesus, and ashamed of his words. So as we review the lesson this morning, they're talking about the requirements of discipleship this is what's involved in becoming a Christian. And also, we think about the infinite worth of our souls. So discipleship requires this radical self denial, total self sacrifice, and unswerving devotion to Jesus Christ. Secondly, we learned if we seek to save our lives, we'll lose them. But if we lose our lives, for Jesus sake, we'll save them. And then thoroughly, we learned that we must value our souls above everything, I can preach this for the next 30 years, I live that long. And this is a message that we can't forget about you got to value your soul, I've got to value my soul, no matter what's involved, or making changes in our lives. And number four, being ashamed of Jesus, in His words will result in our eternal shame by him. So as we look at the descriptions that get us reminders, we go through life. Excuse me, I remind myself, I'm getting older, and physically winding down in some ways, my mind's not as sharp as it used to be. But we're here for a short time just for a few days, and the sooner we learned a lesson, the sooner the sooner we learn to value God in His teachings, than the happier, more fulfilled will be in our lives. And so as we extend the invitation this morning, again, just asked a question for each of us to consider. Are you ashamed of Jesus? Are you ashamed of his teaching? You do realize that he is the only way to heaven? Does that offend you? Does it offend me? I hope it does it. We realize that God has is graciously given us every opportunity to be forgiven of our sins, but we come to God on His terms, not on our terms. Invariably, when you talk to people about religious experience, and people in various denominations, they talk well, this is my salvation experience. I was praying out in the field, and I felt this feeling come over me. Then somebody else was saying I was in a water and I felt this cloud come over. salvation and forgiveness is objective. You know it I know exactly the moment I had my sins forgiven. March 31 1978. in Sunnyvale, California, obey the gospel, confess my faith in him went down into water. And that baptistry in Sunnyvale came up out as a baby and Christ. So God reveals His will in such a way that we can know how to have our sins forgiven. The big challenge is that we need to be careful not to be offended by Jesus for His teachings. So to become a Christian, you must believe that he's that Jesus is the Messiah, repent of your sins, confess your faith in Him and be baptized in water for the forgiveness of your sins. And so somebody here this morning who need is ready to make that decision? Or maybe someone has made a decision in the past, and you simply need to re commit your life to God to reconnect with him. If there's any way that we can help. Any who were here this morning, you might come always stand and sing this imitation song


Transcribed by https://otter.ai