Conrad Harkrider  00:04
Good morning. You want to be opening your Bibles up to John, this the sixth chapter, John chapter six. This is a special day, March 15 2020. That was the last time that we were together like this on a Sunday morning. It's been a while. It's been too long. But it's so good to be back together again. And our our expansion for our building is coming along, it's almost finished up. And so we are so thankful to be able to worship as as a group. According to brother suites, his Broadmoor history, the first service that was ever held in this building was in May of 1971. So we have just passed our 50th anniversary. And some of you were here for that very first service. And we're so thankful that you are here with us today. Renovating and expanding a building that is 50 years old, is not an easy task. And there have been countless hours of designing, coordinating planning all this with our con our contractor and so on behalf of the congregation, I just want to extend a sincere word of things to all those who have been involved, especially to our elders, for their tireless work. On this project, we've added a number of amenities with our expansion. And I'm not sure that the elders will ever use some of those nurseries, the car seat rack that's been installed out here. But we are certainly grateful for their thought their time, their effort, and all that went into making this a reality. So many of you have contributed and helped. There's a new age vac system, there have been first pieces of furniture set up people have helped with the landscaping, preparing the mailroom, installing whiteboards, even steaming the curtains in the nurseries and many, many other critical tasks that we don't have time to mention. Also a special thanks to David for all of his work with the AV. This guy does amazing things you should have seen him last weekend up on the ladder putting in this new projector system, we are grateful for his work, To God be the glory. And may this be a place where we can worship study, encourage one another and praise our great God for another 50 years. The 2020 Summer Olympics are about to wrap up in the next few days. And as a sports fan, I always love watching all of these amazing athletes compete in the various events. And regardless of the sport that they are competing in, they're all striving for the same prize to win a gold medal so that they could stand up on that podium and to listen to their country's national national anthem be played. But for some of the athletes, the goal may not just be to win a gold medal, perhaps they are trying to set a world record to beat a time that has never been beaten before. Or maybe they're trying to win multiple medals in different events. Perhaps it goes beyond the prize. And they're thinking about making their family, their community, their country proud that they would have respect and admiration of all the people that are watching them. Or maybe they're doing it for some type of financial reasons. There's endorsements, I read that the wrestlers from the United States who win a gold medal are given $250,000 The point is there are all kinds of motivations for why and athletes might compete. Have you ever thought about the goal of Christianity? What is it that we are striving for? What are we trying to attain with our faith? I'd like to think about that for a few moments this morning. And I want to start in John chapter six and verse 25. Read with me and John chapter six and verse 25. As a multitude of people come seeking Jesus, John 625, it says, And when they found him on the other side of the sea, they said to him, Rabbi, when did you come here? Jesus answered them and said, Most assuredly, I say to you, you seek me, not because you saw the signs, but because you ate of the loaves, and we're filled. Do not labor for the food which parishes but for the food which endures to everlasting life, which the Son of Man will give you because God the Father has set His seal on him. Then they said to him, What shall we do that we may work the works of God? Jesus answered and said to them, this is the work of God, that you believe in Him, whom He sent. Therefore they said to him, What sign will you perform then? That we may see it? And believe you What work will you do? Our fathers ate the manna in the desert, as it is written, He gave them bread from heaven to eat. Then Jesus said to them, Most assuredly, I say to you, Moses, did not give you the bread from heaven. But my father gives you the true bread from heaven. For the bread of God is He who comes down from heaven and gives life to the world. Jesus has just fed the multitudes with the five loaves of bread, and that in the two fish, and now they have come, verse 24, seeking Jesus, what is it that they want from Jesus? Why are they coming to him? I'd like to look at a list of possible goals for why someone might follow Jesus, what would be the reason or the motivation for following him? First of all, notice, verse 26, he says, I assuredly, I say to you, you seek me not because you saw the signs. But because you ate of the loaves, and were filled, maybe a possible goal or reason to follow Jesus is to receive some type of physical blessing. These people are coming to Jesus, because they want to fill their stomach, their stomachs, he says, You're not seeking me because you saw the signs. You're not coming to me because you were impressed with the power of God, because you saw God's anointed the Messiah, and you were amazed by him. But instead, all they could think about was what are we having for dinner? What's going to be our next meal? They wanted to receive some type of physical blessing. Do we ever think like that? Does our relationship with God ever hinge upon the blessings that He gives to us? We think, well, I need to go to church because I've got a big job interview this week. And I want that to go well, or I need to keep on with my praying because I've got a couple of finals coming up this week. And you know, I've got to pass those classes. And we started thinking in terms of what can God do for me, if I'm going to serve him? How is he going to bless my life? Our faith becomes all about what do I get from this? To receive some type of blessing? Well, notice verse 28, and verse 28. They said, What shall we do that we may work? The works of God? Maybe the goal of Christianity is to possess God's power? These people are asking this question, what can we do so that we can do the works of God? I think this attitude here is like, the attitude of Simon the sorcerer in Acts chapter eight. You remember when he saw what Peter and John were doing that they were able to lay their hands on people and impart the gifts of the Holy Spirit? He came up and he said, what what do I have to do? How much money does it take for me to have this ability? I think these people in John eight are asking Jesus, to give them this power so they can perform these mighty works. And Jesus says in the following verse, the work of God, the work that you need to be focused on is believing in me there are some who still come to God with this expectation. They're interested in power. They want to be able to speak in tongues or prophesy or knows something about the future or they want to be able to heal people. They're looking for God to bless them with this extraordinary gift. Well, what about verse 30? In verse 30, it says, Therefore, they said to him, What sign will you perform then? That we may see it? And believe you What work will you do? These people want it to see something amazing, and maybe that's why we come to God because we want to be impressed by his grace. Power. Jesus has just turned this food into a mass banquet for all of these people. And so we want to see you do something else. Jesus, have you ever had a friend who was really good at playing an instrument and every time they were together with a group people were always asking them, can you play a play a song for us can play that new song that you wrote, We want to hear something, we want to see your talent. And so that's what these people are asking from Jesus, Jesus do something to amaze us? What is it that draws us to Christ? Is it to be amazed by something? Is it to hear amazing music? Is it to hear a phenomenal preacher? You have to come back next week to get that message. But what is it that we are desiring when we come to the Lord? These people wanted to see something amazing. Well, maybe these aren't the goal of Christianity, maybe it's more spiritually focused. So what what about the forgiveness of sins? This morning, we sing the song Lamb of God, John the Baptist proclaimed, that when Jesus came, He said, Behold, the Lamb of God who takes away the sins of the world. And so maybe that is the ultimate objective for us is to be released from our sins to have a fresh start. But then we keep reading the scriptures, we understand that it doesn't stop there. What about stop doing bad things? We got to change our lives, we have to follow his commands. In John chapter eight, when the woman was caught in the act of adultery, and they brought her to Jesus, and they asked what should be done to her. After Jesus released the crowds, he told the woman go and sin no more, maybe that's what it's about, to refrain from doing wrong. The Pharisees and the scribes, they spent lots of time reading and studying the Word. And they kept, they put the law as their highest priority. They were so adamant about keeping the Sabbath and keeping all of these regulations, so much so that in Mark chapter two, when they saw the disciples plucking heads of grain from the fields, they went up and they said, Why are you breaking the Sabbath? Why are you doing what is not lawful? They were so focused on not doing something that was bad. Or what about so that we don't, so that we don't go to hell. Hell is not a place that you want to be. The Bible describes it as a place of torment of punishment. There's weeping and gnashing of teeth, utter darkness. And Jesus offers us a path out of that destruction. So the goal of being a Christian, is so that we don't end up in hell. Well, that doesn't sound right as to negative What about so that we can make it to heaven? Heaven is described as an eternal place of rest. There's no pain, there's no suffering, there's no death. We often talk about heaven. In times, when we're trying to comfort someone, we say, he's in a better place, or she's finally gone home. And so Heaven is this ultimate reward. Maybe that is the goal of following Christ. Or perhaps it's just to be a part of a group, to have a family, to have a group of friends of people that you can be connected to. When you join a church, you are immediately grouped into a congregation of people that care about you, that want to help you if you're sick people come and visit if you're in need, people might bring food, but there's all these things that can lift you up. And so maybe that's what we need. We just need good friends, good people to be around us. That's ultimately the purpose of following Christ. There is some merit to each of these. And I think if we went through and talked about them in depth, we would see that they are blessings that these are gifts or promises that God has made to his people. But what is the primary goal of serving Christ? Why should we devote our entire lives? Why should we give everything that we have to the Lord, what is the point? What is the primary purpose? Luke with me in Ephesians, Chapter Four in verse 11, in Ephesians, chapter four and verse 11. Here Paul is speaking about some of the blessings and the gifts that the Lord has given to us. And notice what he says about the ultimate purpose. He says, And he gave the apostles, the prophets, the evangelists, the shepherds and teachers, to equip the saints, for the work of ministry for building up the body of Christ. Until we all attain to the unity of the faith and of the knowledge of the Son of God to mature manhood, to the measure of the stature of the fullness of Christ. Paul starts off by listing out these various people or these roles. He says that God has given us the apostles, the prophets, the evangelists, all of these servants who have helped to bring us to the unity of the faith so that we can all believe and know the same things. Have you ever had a teacher that really helps you? To help you to better understand God's Word that helped you grow in your faith? So you had a better appreciation and understanding of who God was and what it is? What's it all about? Growing up, there was a man who worked with our congregation, John Lasseter. And he had a number of studies with the young people and was instrumental in helping us grow in our faith, establish our faith, at a pivotal time in our lives. These are godly examples that the Lord has blessed his people with to know who Jesus really is. Notice that we are trying to grow to maturity, he says the mature manhood. And then notice the end of verse 13. That ultimately it is to be the measure of the stature of the fullness of Christ. That's kind of a mouthful. What does that mean? What is he talking about the measure of the stature of the fullness of Christ, my kids will often come up to me and they'll put their hand on top of their head, and they'll back up to my chest. And they'll say, Daddy, look how tall I am. Look how much I've grown, I'm getting so much bigger, I'm almost as tall as you are. And I've been working on every possible way to keep them from growing as fat as fast as they are. But children want to be like their parents, they want to be like mom and dad, they want to measure up to the stature of their parents. So here it is, right here. The goal of being a Christian is to measure up to be like Christ. I like the way that contemporary English version puts this, it says, then we will be mature just as Christ is, and we will be completely like him. We are striving to be like, God, there's a difference in knowing Christ. And doing some of the things that Christ said to do. There is a difference between imitating Christ and just being a religious person. In the book of Judges, it says that the people continued to serve the Lord, all of the days of Joshua, and all of the days of the elders who outlived Joshua. But then there is this sad verse in Judges chapter two and verse 10, that says, that after that generation was gathered to their fathers, there arose another generation after them, who did not know the Lord. They didn't know the Lord. They didn't have a connection to him. They didn't have a relationship with Him. They didn't trust him or rely upon him. They forgot about all of the things that God had done to bring them out of Egypt to bring them into the land of Canaan, they didn't know God. The challenge for us is to not become fixated or focused on something that is not really the goal. That is not the ultimate purpose of being a disciple of Christ. Instead of focusing on something physical, or rather, we should be keeping our eyes on growing to this spiritual maturity. In John chapter five and verse 39, Jesus told the Pharisees and the scribes, he said, You search the Scriptures, because in them you think that you have eternal life, but all the while where they were reading the Torah and looking at these things, and trying to follow every letter of the law, they had missed the Messiah. They had overlooked Christ, the one that God had sent to his people. I'd like to give you three illustrations as we close this morning of what it means to know Christ. What does it mean to measure up to his stature? The first one is the fruit tree. The fruit tree in Matthew chapter seven in verse 16. Jesus is warning his disciples about false prophets. And he says to them that you will know them, by their fruits, by their words by the things that they do we know a plant or a tree based upon the fruit that it produces. This past spring and summer, we planted a garden in the backyard. And it's got various things. We've got the tomatoes, and the cucumbers and some of the lettuce. And every night when we would sit down to EADS, and the plates will be served, I would always ask, Is this from the garden? And oftentimes the answer was, yes, what we were having that night was from the garden. One night, Hudson was having his dinner, and he was eating a hot dog. And he looked up, and he said, Is this from the garden? And I wish there was some type of bacon plan that we could put back there that would produce that type of thing. But cucumber, plants, bear cucumbers, tomato, plants, bear tomatoes, you know the tree based upon what it brings forth. And that is a parallel for the Christian life. What are we producing in our life? What type of fruit Are we bearing Galatians chapter five, Paul says that the fruit of the Spirit, what the Spirit brings forth in a person's life is love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentleness, and self control. You take any one of those attributes, and look at the life of Christ was Jesus? Was he kind to other people? Did he display kindness in his interactions with others in Matthew chapter nine in verse 36, it says that he had compassion for them. Because he saw that they were harassed like sheep, without a shepherd. As the multitudes came to Jesus, he didn't look at them as just broken, dirty, poor people. He cared about them. Jesus was concerned about others, not just the people that were close to him. He wasn't just a folk focused on his disciples or on his family, or on his community, his close friends, but people from all over would come to Jesus. And He showed them kindness to measure up to the full stature of Christ, we have to be bearing fruit, bearing fruit in our lives. Well, what about the wedding, the example of the illustration of a wedding and Ephesians chapter five, there's this beautiful passage. And it describes the relationship between the husband and the wife, and the the closeness that they have, what they, how they feel towards one another, the things that they do for each other. And Paul says something very interesting at the end of that section, and Ephesians five and verse 32. He says, this mystery is profound. And I am saying that this, that it refers to Christ and the church. So marriage is the shadow Christ and the church is the substance. That language is also used in Revelation 21, in verse two, when it talks about how we are the bride of Christ, that we are adorning ourselves preparing ourselves to be with Christ. Think about what the bride does on her wedding day and the process that she goes through we got married on a Saturday at 3pm. And I was told that that time was selected so that my soon to be wife didn't have to get up at 4am in the morning. But think about all that she's doing. She's getting her hair done. She has her nails. Her nails are painted, she does her makeup, she puts on the jewelry, she has the the dress, the shoes, the veil, all of that is in preparation so that when those doors open up, she steps down into that aisle for the first time and sees her groom. There's nothing like that moment she is fully prepared to become his wife. And the Bible says that we are to present ourselves to Christ we are to be joined together with him think about that in our lives. are we offering our absolute best are we adorning ourselves as the bride of Christ, can you imagine a bride who just overslept on her wedding day and then quickly got up, threw on a hat, grab some clothes off the floor and then ran in to the ceremony. Our focus in this life should be to adorn ourselves in a way that pleases the Lord. And ultimately, that's what we're looking forward to, to be joined together with Christ for all eternity. And finally, the coin. The Romans had a robust system of currency, they had coins that were made of gold, silver, bronze, and they would often have an inscription, or a picture of the king of Caesar on the front of the coin, you remember in Matthew 22, when they came to ask Jesus about paying taxes to Caesar, and he asked them for a coin, he said, whose inscription and likeness is this? And they said, Caesar, and then he told them render to Caesar the things that are Caesar's. But that that picture that likeness, that was on the coin, how would you know that that is Caesar? Well, he has the same facial features, he's got the curly hair, maybe it's got a beard, he's wearing the wreath around his head, that coin is an image of the king, it looks just like him. In Colossians, chapter three and verse nine, it says, Do not lie to one another, seeing that you have put off the old self with with its practices, and have put on the new self, which is being renewed in knowledge after the image of its Creator. You see that we are striving to be in the image of our Creator, like a coin, that if a person were to look at our lives, they would see Christ, they would see the image of God. They would say that looks just like him. This is Christ in action. We go back to the book of Genesis, we read that man was created by God that we were made in His image. And Christ has brought that to fulfillment. He was God's image in the flesh. And he gives us that perfect example that we can walk after and follow. The only way that we can find that true sense of fulfillment, joy, satisfaction, is if we model ourselves after the one who gave us life. Our ultimate goal, what we were striving after more than anything else, is to be like Christ. That's why we come to Him. That's why we read His word. That's why we come together with other Christians so that we can be more like Jesus. We're going to close this morning with a song it's a opportunity to encourage all who are here if there's something that we can do to support or help you and your walk, and your service to God if you need to become a Christian. Now's a perfect opportunity. Please come down to the front as together we stand and sing


Transcribed by https://otter.ai