Good evening, it's good to see you all this evening. It's a once again, welcome those who are visiting for being with us tonight. I am not one of the regular preachers, I am the preacher. And I'm not one of the regular preachers. So it's maybe a little bit different. Hopefully, it'll come together. I will say that preparing and standing before you is a great reminder of how good of a job the regular preachers do. And so thank you to each one of them. And thank you to their families as well. It's an honor to be before you. We're going to spend most of our time tonight in Proverbs chapter three, looking at trust and obey. And I'm particularly specifically in making decisions. And not because I think I've got some figured out, I've got it all figured out. I'm making good decisions. But Scripture offers us wisdom in this area. And so hopefully, it'll be helpful to look at. Maybe it should be complete joy and complete trust and obedience. I was reading something a while back that CS Lewis wrote, and it sort of got me on the track about what I want to talk about for a few minutes. And I won't read the entire section, but maybe just paraphrase a little bit. But he started out by saying it's always shocking to meet life when we thought we were alone. So always shocking to meet life when we thought we were alone. And maybe you've experienced this I thought about there's one day I was mowing the lawn and I was I was going along and I was I went past a tree. And all of a sudden I glanced over and and that snake right there was about less than a foot from me, right at eye level. And you may be thinking now that you may be thinking, Keith, that's that's not even a poisonous snake. And you may be right. In fact, based on my research afterwards, I think it I think it's not a poisonous snake. But that's not what I was thinking in that moment. I made a very quick decision to to get away, and to put a large amount of distance between myself and that snake. But he was and I can say I was generally shocked to meet life when I basically thought I was alone. The writer he was making a point he was comparing that when we might draw back to coming face to face and with a decision in our lives. When we come before the God of salvation, and how do we respond in that situation. He sort of went on he and kind of further developing the point he made another comparison he talked about kids playing a game and playing robbers and there's a point when there's a noise down the hall and and everybody gets quiet in there. Everybody's thinking was at a real footstep down the hall. I could remember something similar to this. I was seven years old, there was a show called Bonanza on on TV. I used to watch the reruns with my grandparents. And there was an actual place call. That was like a replica of the set of this show. And it's called Ponderosa and my grandparents live pretty close to and they took me there once they and there's all we got there in the morning there was all sorts of things to see and do. And we went into the general store and they bought me this gold nugget. I wish I still had it with me. I think it's at my my parents house somewhere. But they bought me this gold nugget is fool's gold, but to me it was it was a real gold nugget. So we left him we got on the wagons pretty soon after that they were going to take us up to where the breakfast was. And we were kind of winding our way up the path and then all of a sudden, some people came riding up from behind us on horses and they forced our ranking train to stop. So this is when it sort of took a turn. Because this was not a good situation. These men had black hats on and so this was they were robbing us. And the the wagon drivers they had bags of money just with dollar signs on the back. So those were gone. And those were that was easy. But then they went to each wagon and they asked if anybody had any goals. And this is when things really took a turn because I have my golden nugget in my pocket and I didn't know what to do. So they got to me and I I very carefully I pulled out of my pocket and just dropped it down into my grandma's purse and then put my hands up No, I got nothing. And it took me a long time after that to realize that nothing about that was actually real. Like I probably could have pulled it out and they would have said, Oh, that's, that's too small. We're not even going to bother with that. But the point that the writer was making in drawing in meeting life when we thought we were alone and playing a game when things take a turn and become real, is that when the there's a decision that we, we we become when we come face to face with the God of salvation with a true and living God of salvation, that there's a real response that's required. And we do see in Scripture that some turned away in John chapter six, I think later in the chapter says some many turned away and didn't follow after Jesus. And that's a sad thing to see. But how do we respond in that situation, we can think about the the initial decision to submit our lives to God or can think about it in a longer process over time, when we are maturing, and hopefully, growing, growing closer to God and making good decisions. I want to look at maybe a slightly different angle, those things would certainly be included, but just look at some some wisdom and guidance in Scripture to help us make good decisions. Because we make a lot of decisions. We make those there are those big life altering decisions that we have, like jobs, careers, school type decisions on where we'll live, who will marry. And we can feel the weight of those big life altering decisions. There are the small everyday type decisions, where we'll go, what we'll do what we'll eat, when we choose the red pews, or the B, or the blue pews, you know, that one, maybe is has no impact. But sometimes those small decisions do have an impact, and they can make a bigger impact. Sometimes we undervalue those smaller day to day decisions. And I think in Proverbs chapter three, well, before we we get into that, I want to just briefly, just go talk about two maybe opposite ends of decision making. So on one hand, maybe there's the long drawn out process of looking at all the options, looking at the risks and the rewards looking at every possible angle, and it's it's the far end. So it's like overanalyzing it's, it's it's an almost an agonizing experience. And, and I'd have to say sometimes with big decisions, I've lean more in that direction. But then on the other side, there's an impulse type decision where there's you don't have to worry about the analyzing it, you don't have, there's not much thought into it at all. Actually, it's just, but if it's a bigger decision, it's sometimes maybe there's regrets later on and thinking, you know, what was I thinking? So really, really, neither of those would really be ideal, and just on its own, so in Proverbs, we can look at it a different way. And I think many here would agree that we want to find out we want to make the decision that God would want us to make. We want to know what God's will is for our life. And we want to make the best decision that's in accordance with with God's will for our lives. And those are the types of things we we pray about. We want to make that best decision. From a very early age, we make decisions for our kids, when they're really young, we make decisions for them. And then we might make decisions and say, This is the decision that you should make and we can explain why. And then at a certain point, we start making our decisions. Hopefully there's a process of growing and maturing and gaining knowledge and wisdom and gaining the strength of character to make make good decisions that are in line with God's will. And there are many wise people around me that are wiser than I am and more experience and Proverbs says in chapter 13, verse 20, says, Walk with the wise and become wise. So in Proverbs chapter three, we have some, some really good advice from from Solomon, when Solomon when when Solomon realized that, that he would be making decisions for a nation that he'd make, be making decisions that that affect himself, his family, and many others for generations as king, he prayed to God. And he he he asked for wisdom, to discern between good and evil, between right and wrong. And I think in Proverbs, we have a template that basically teaches us how to make good decisions. And Proverbs chapter three. Jeremy read this as part of his lesson this morning. Starting in verse five, says trust in the Lord with all your heart, and lean not on your own understanding In all your ways, acknowledge Him. And He shall direct your paths. I think some say you'll make your paths straight or make straight your paths. So there's a promise there that, that if we trust in God, if we we trust in His plan for our lives, and we, we acknowledge him and we are we submit to Him or we obey Him that He will direct our patents. I think about the song was from Psalm 119. But Thy Word is a lamp to my feet, and a light to my path. And it's a it's a powerful thought to think about God's word lighting the way giving us clarity, and allowing us to see forward directing our path in life. And this is, this is entirely Jesus is at the very center of this Colossians in chapter one, it says that all things have been created through him and for him. and in Him all things hold together. Through Jesus, all things are reconciled to God by making peace through his blood, shed on the cross and so trusting in his plan, and obeying his commands for everyone, I think the more that we we know that the more that we obey that the more that we appreciate that. But then the clearer it becomes for us in our decisions, understanding what God is doing, and being in alignment with it, and not against I'd like to. So look at maybe each verse, now and a little bit more. Verse five, trust in the Lord with all your heart. Trusting in His perfect will. Sometimes we hear we hear God's sovereign will, God's sovereign will, and he is sovereign. He is the ultimate source of all power, all authority and ease over everything that exists. And we can go against God's sovereign will, we can kick against the goads. Paul, when he was recounting his story in Acts 26, he said, Jesus said to him, is hard for you to kick against the goads. And we can go against God's will. But we think about in the big picture since us going against God's will doesn't, it doesn't change the fact that his sovereign will is being accomplished, it's moving forward, his will is being accomplished, throughout. Throughout that, I think ultimately toward revelation 2122, and all things are made new. And so trusting in trusting in the Lord with all of our hearts, thinking about this verse, what I in studying, what I take away is our take it to mean is this that, that we can see God's perfect will is good, we can read from Genesis to Revelation, we can see that it's good. And I want to be a full participant in that. But there are times when it's hard to see how God is going to is going to get things to that end. But I trust in His plan, I trust in His promises that and I trust in and that all things work together for good for all those who love Him. And so I can I can do the easy choice and just get by or I can make maybe the harder choice. And that's in accordance with what Jesus said, and, and that's in line with with the direction that God is leading all things, I can make that choice. And so I'll trust in God, and not in my own plan. And we're told that it's not doing God's will is not going to always be the easiest, it's not going to be the most profitable, it's not it may not be the most comfortable path. But it goes goes along with with verse six. That in all things in all ways acknowledge or submit or obey to obey him and that he will direct our paths we, we submit to, to, to his will to his moral standard. We ask God to show us the way but then God says no, I want you to find that out by in all your ways. Submitting to my will and and obeying what I've said there are a lot of situations that we have what God has said we know. We know what he has said. Should I lie to my parents? Should I lie to my spouse should I steal from my employer should I live in bitterness or an anger and resentment toward this this other person, we may ask God to help us in certain areas, but we don't have to go to God and ask to, for him to reveal to us if it's right to lie or to cheat or to live in anger and resentment or to not forgive. Now we have his word, and we have the standard, it's not a subjective thing. We, we have what God has said, and we should obey what He said. And I just put a couple of examples of where we have what God has said in Ephesians. Let all bitterness and wrath and anger and clamor and slander be put away from you. And First Thessalonians four, four, this is the will of God, your sanctification that you abstain from, from sexual immorality. So I think these two pieces trusting in God, when when I don't know and obeying and submitting to His will, that's the challenge for us. That's the goal for us. I'd say that, at this point, that that's a challenge for me. That's why I wanted to study this I read something in setting that I thought was on the right track, that that we receive that light, to direct our paths, in proportion to our submission to trusting and obeying His sovereign will, at the more that we submit, the more that we trust and obey, the more we receive that clarity and that understanding and that lamp for our feet, showing us the way and that is a solid foundation for for our lives and for our decisions. I think about the the words of Joshua, he said as for me in my house, we will serve the Lord. And we want that for our faith. We we want a faith that's that's built on Jesus, Jesus is the chief cornerstone. And Ephesians chapter two, it talks about Jesus Himself as the chief cornerstone. And in that context, talking about Jews and Gentiles being reconciled through Christ, and in verse 22, being built together and for all of us to become a dwelling in which God lives by His Spirit. And that the foundation for our lives that built on Jesus, Jesus as the chief cornerstone, so that when we have decisions to make when things aren't as clear for us, or I in matters that are directly talked about Scripture, we have that solid foundation that we can go forward in confidence, we can we can trust in the Lord with all of our heart, not lean on our own understanding, and in all our ways acknowledge him. I think it goes exactly with what Jesus said in John chapter 14, when he said, If anyone loves Me, he will keep my word. And my Father will love him, and we will come to him and make Our home with him. And I think is the the lesson for us to, to draw close to God to draw near to God to to be aligned to His purpose and to His will and to be obedient to His commands to trust and obey and he'll come and make a home home with us. I think there's sort of a turning point because in doing this proverbs five and six, the outcome for us is that it changes us it it changes us into the kind of people that can make consistently make God honoring decisions, trusting in Him and submitting to his world changes who we are, it transforms us and into the kind of people that can consistently make decisions that are right in line with with his will for us and because his word is what is lighting the way sort of a conclusion I heard this a while back and it stuck with me that that the greatest obstacle, about knowing God's will for your life is your will for your life. And that kind of hurts because it's it's personal that the biggest thing that's going to get in the biggest thing that's going to get in the way of knowing God's will for my life in any decision or situation is my own will, in that decision or situation. The way that I want it to be when Jesus is saying, Not my will, but Your will be done. We see it throughout Scripture that there are some that trusted in God, there are some that went against God's will. And I chose three examples of people that trusted in God's will. Jonathan in First Samuel 14, he made a decision. The setting was that the Philistines had invaded, and King Saul had at this point lost his way. And when he was when King Saul was anointed he was supposed to protect he was supposed to protect them from the enemies around them. And verse two, verse 14 says that he was sitting under a pomegranate tree. And Jonathan had that solid foundation, he knew that that's not the way that it was supposed to be. And in First Samuel 14, verse six, says, Jonathan said to his young armor bear, Come, let us go over to the outposts of those uncircumcised men. Perhaps the Lord will act in our behalf. Nothing can hinder the Lord from saving, whether by many, or by few. Nehemiah, Conrad had a very good lesson a few weeks about Nehemiah, in the face of adversity, about responding and making decisions. And when Nehemiah learned that the walls had been burned down, that the Gates had been burned down. And he, he recognized that that's not the way that it should be based on what God had said, and that someone had to do something about it. It says that, he said, God put it in my heart that He trusted in God. And he made bold decisions to go and lead the rebuilding effort and the path. The path wasn't wasn't an easy path. Mary in Luke chapter one, an angel came to Mary told her what was going to happen, it says that she was greatly troubled, she was afraid. She said, how will this be? And and you'll explain how that how, how, what was going to happen. And then she said, Behold, I am the servant of the Lord. Let it be according to your word. And, and Jesus Himself, praying in the garden, he was praying that it wasn't his will to be to be beaten to be crucified on a cross. But he was setting his well aside because his ultimate desire was to do was to do to do his father's will. In Hebrews chapter five, verse nine, speaking about Jesus, Hebrews five, in verse nine, it says, and once made perfect, He became the source of eternal salvation, for all who obey Him. I hope it's been helpful to consider these things. I think we all face decisions, where there's uncertainty on which direction to go. And I think that in order to see what what we should, what God's will for us in the future is, we have to be living according to what he's revealed to us in Scripture. So spending time in His Word, thinking about it seeking out wise counsel. And I know that that I have plenty of room plenty of opportunity to do better. So hopefully, it's been helpful to consider. We've been listening to a song at our house about not wanting to miss out on the chance to see Jesus and the chance to hear what he has to say. And it's written from the perspective of Zacchaeus. And it's part of it says, I don't want to miss this. Now, I don't want to miss a thing. So I climbed up in a sycamore tree, because I don't want to miss a single thing. And if you're here tonight, if you trust in God, if you're ready to submit to His will, to be buried with him in baptism and raised through faith, or if there's anything that we can do, we ask that you would come now as we stand in saying


Transcribed by https://otter.ai