Mike Roy  00:00
I could have said it's a wonderful opportunity to come and worship and praise our Mighty God in heaven to remember the great sacrifice that Jesus made on our behalf. I appreciate those songs chance that you laid for us this morning. And as we think about at least many of us at this time are thinking about the birth of our nation, which took place almost 250 years ago. 1776, the liberation from Britain British power. We think that that's a long time, 245 years. And it seems to be that way. But in comparison to the kingdom of Christ, that we're a part of it is nothing. God's Kingdom is eternal. And the songs that we've sung this morning also indicate that, so that's something that wants to think about the fact that we are part of an eternal kingdom that will never end that will never be destroyed. In the first century, when the apostles were preaching faith in Jesus Christ and His kingdom to God established, the Jewish leaders were offended by that, and actually an accept the five the Sanhedrin, did yours Council tried to kill the apostles, and Gamaliel, of one of the leading Pharisees of that time, warned the Sanhedrin to be careful what you plan to do to these people, because he said, If this is of God, it cannot be stopped. There's nothing that you can do to hinder this. So he said, Be careful about them. They listen to advice, and they still flog the apostles. But it's a reminder as he suggested, that if what these apostles were doing in preaching that message of truth that they were preaching was part of God's kingdom. He said, It is it means it's unstoppable. And I came across this phrase, this word, in the last several weeks, that word unstoppable, and maybe think about that. And what it's one of those powerful words that we may we understand certainly what it means, but sometimes we don't stop to think about the implications of that. But this text and accept to five communicates this message that God's Kingdom is unstoppable. God is unstoppable. And we rejoice that we can be a part of His kingdom. And one of the things that we should recognize when we think about this principle in scripture that God is unstoppable, his truth, his lover all unstoppable, we rejoice that we can be part of His kingdom that will never be destroyed. We're on a winning team forever. And so it should give us a great deal of encouragement as we think about this. I want you to think about one word this morning with me. It's up on the screen on stoppable. As it relates, especially to God's kingdom. I put together four points, I'll probably add another one here in just a moment. But when we think about God's Word, the first thing I want to suggest to each of us is that God's kingdom is on stoppable is immovable, it will never be destroyed, it will never come to an end. And we're part of that kingdom today. So here's the text that I made reference to a few minutes ago. So the Apostles Peter, James, and John and and a number of them are preaching faith in Jesus Christ. The Jewish leaders heard this and this is the New Century Version. They became angry and want to kill them. But a Pharisee named Emilio stood up in a meeting, he was a teacher of the law, and all the people respected him. He ordered the apostles to leave the meeting for a little while. Then he said people of Israel be careful what you're planning to do to these men. Remember when Buddha's appeared, he said he was a great man and about 400 men joined him, but he was killed, and all his followers were scattered. They were able to do nothing. Later, a man named Judas came from Galilee at the time of the registration. He also led a group of followers and was killed, and all his followers were scattered. So verse 38. So now I tell you stay away from these men and leave them alone. If their plan comes from human authority, it will fail. But if it is from God, you will not be able to stop them. In fact, he says you might even be fighting against God Himself, some wise counsel from Emilio to these years leaders who were threatening to kill the apostles. And then later they beat them and I was part of their regular routine. But in verse 39, there's that phrase, he said, If this is from God, he said, You will not be able to stop them. And it reminds me that is the apostles were preaching about Jesus kingdom and forgiveness and repentance and all that through faith in Jesus Christ. It reminds me that God's Kingdom is unstoppable. And think about that if we ever are tempted to go back into the world It happens too often on a somewhat regular basis with Christians we know and they leave this eternal kingdom that will never fail, never be destroyed, where we can worship God forever, and go back into the world for something that is temporary and transient, transient. So, again, there's another thought to think about when we realize that we're part of a kingdom, that cannot be stopped. It cannot be destroyed, it's never going to come to an end. It is simply unstoppable. And that's the message that the apostle were preaching is a travelled through the Roman Empire and that first century, that they that people do faith and repentance and obedience to the gospel of Christ can be added to God's kingdom and be part of an eternal kingdom. That never ends. Another passage that comes to mind to me, from the book of Daniel, and Daniel was actually predicting the establishment of the Kingdom of Christ. So in Daniel chapter two, he's describing the four world kingdoms with some images and statues in the connection with that mentions the the Babylonian kingdom, the middle Persian dynasty, the Greek Kingdom or Empire and the Roman kingdom. So in verse 40, so there shall be a fourth kingdom, he's talking about Rome, there shall be a fourth kingdom strong as iron. Because iron breaks to pieces and shatters all things in like iron that crushes it shall break and crush all these things. As you saw the feet and toes, partly a potter's claim partly of iron, it shall be divided King Tom with the Roman kingdom or empire. But some of the firmness of iron shall be in it, just as you saw iron mixed with a soft clay. And as the toes of the feet were partly iron, partly clay. So the kingdom shall be partly strong and partly brittle. And you saw the iron mixed with the soft clay. So they will mix with one another in marriage. But they will not hold together, just as iron does not mix with clay. But look at verse 44. In the days of those kings, Daniel said, in the days of the Roman emperors, in the days of those kings, the God of heaven will set up a kingdom that shall never be destroyed. And it says, nor shall the kingdom be left to another people. It shall break all these kingdoms and bring them to an end. And it shall stand forever. So you think about all the people persecuting God's Church rising up against the kingdom of Christ? Where are all those persecutors? Where are all those murderers of the first century Christians and the apostles, they're all dead. And God's Kingdom abides in rules forever. And we're blessed to be a part of that kingdom here, it Broadmoor, Nashville, Tennessee. So and Daniel chapter two, he's he was predicting the establishment of His kingdom of Jesus kingdom. And we see an act chapter five that we talked about just a moment ago, God's kingdom was moving, it was moving forward, and the truth was spreading. And there was nothing that these people could do to hinder the progress of God's kingdom. I think about another passage in in Matthew chapter 16, when Jesus came into the region of Ciceri, of Philippi. And this is his he continues to get his kingdom established. He raised the question, Who do people say that I am? And some said, you're John the Baptist, some say Elijah, or one of the other prophets. And Jesus said to them, who do you say that I am? And Peter said, You are the Christ, the Son, the Son of the living God. So Jesus said to him, bless her, you, Simon bar, Jonah, because flesh and blood did not reveal this to you, but my Father who is in heaven, I also say to you that you are Peter, and upon this rock, I will build my church, sometimes we've kind of stopped that that truth. Peter says, Jesus says to Peter, you are, Peter upon this rock, I will build my church, but Jesus goes on to say, and the gates of hell, the gates of Hades, will not overpower it. So the reality is, God's Kingdom when he established that would be so powerful, so permanent, so fixed in his reality, that all of the forces of Satan could not withstand the kingdom of God. That was 2000 years ago, and we're in that kingdom today. So again, it's a reminder that the God's Kingdom is unstoppable. Can anybody stop God's Kingdom his work, no, cannot be done will not be done ever. And long after everybody in this world has died and been judged by God. God's Kingdom will go on for all eternity. So we're thinking about some things that are unstoppable. God's Kingdom is unstoppable. If you want some assurance in your life in the midst of sickness and pandemic, and trial and disappointment and heartache and suffering, get in God's kingdom, it's never going to end it will never be destroyed. It's the greatest kingdom in human history. There's never been a kingdom like it. So, excuse me. The first truth I want us to see then is that God's Kingdom is unstoppable. Secondly, I want to suggest you that God's truth is unstoppable. That when God reveals His will, it cannot be destroyed, it cannot be altered. This is a time of the year around July 4, when people think about this song that Julia Ward Howe, how wrote The Battle Hymn of the Republic. It says mine eyes have seen the glory of the coming of the Lord. He is tramping out the vintage where The Grapes of Wrath or story, he is loosed the faithful lightning of his terrible swift sword. There's the line His truth is marching on God's truth is marching on in spite of the pandemic. And it will come to an end sooner or later. Right. And we have a little flare up from front from time to time, but they are a little and God's truth is bigger than the struggles, the sickness the suffering that we face in this life and God's truth continues to march on that's and that's by God's design. Again, going back to this text. This is a New International Version. When the male gave his advice, he said in the present case, I advise you leave these men alone, for if their purpose or activity, what was their activity, their activity was sharing the truth, preaching the truth, preaching the gospel, he said, If this activity is of human origin, it will fail. But he said if what they're doing is from God, if they're preaching the truth of God, you can't stop them. God's truth can not be stopped ever. And so get on the side of truth. If you if we've been misled in our lives, and I grew up that way, myself, and many of us who came out of various denominations, when you come to realize the truth, get into truth, obey the truth, follow the truth, because the truth will stand forever. And I think that's one of the lines of the song that we let this chance to live for us this morning. And again, when people resist the truth, they find themselves just fighting against God. So this is accept to five that we've been kind of focusing on in some ways this morning. And we can see that God's kingdom was eternal in nature, but in the same chapter, excuse me, and the same chapter, early on, after the apostles were doing performing different miracles. The Jewish leaders are filled with jealousy and verse 17. And they're angry, they want to put these guys that the apostles in prison, they tried to stop them from spreading the truth of Jesus Christ. They did put them in jail, and within God do. God sent an angel from heaven with a key and opened the door to the jail. And they said, Go back on Main Street by the temple and preach the same message that you've been preaching. And no matter what was going on with Satan's power in his in his cohorts, they couldn't stop God's truth because God's truth is on stoppable. So it's, again, think about that. The power of God's truth is such that it cannot and it will not be stopped. I think of some passages in the Old Testament, I'll just share it quickly. Job said And Job chapter 42. And verse two, he said, I know that you can do all things, and that no purpose of yours can be stopped or watered, so so nothing could stop God's purposes. And Jeremiah chapter one, verse 12, when God speaking to Jeremiah telling him to speak His word, and he showed him an image of an all men branch, and he asked Jeremiah what he saw, I said, I see this almond branch and God says, that I am watching over my word to perform it. When God speaks, he is going to guarantee that His word comes to pass his truth is going to march on as we sometimes sing, one of the verses that came to my mind not long after my conversion, about 42 years ago, Proverbs chapter 23, verse 23, and the veils. Remember that proverbs 2323 In the King James Version, buy the truth and sell it not buy the truth and do not sell it. Because truth is eternal is not going away. And second Corinthians chapter 13, verse eight, Paul said that we can do we cannot do anything against the truth, but only for the truth. You can fight against the truth all day long if you want to, but you'll come up with an A in a losing battle, so that God's truth is going to prevail forever. Psalm 119, verse 160, a very well known, first most of us, it says, the sum of Your word is truth. And every one of your righteous judgments is everlasting. God's truth is everlasting. It is its song. Relating to the Battle Hymn of the Republic says that God's God's truth is marching on. So secondly, we want to understand that God's truth is unstoppable. So again, if you want to be on the right side of truth, obey the truth, learn it, obey it, because God's truth cannot be stopped a third, actually, if just one of the one of the think about this as well make a tie into our class on Wednesday night about the nature of truth. Hebrews chapter four verses 12 and 13. Talks about the nature of truth and the power of truth. And this is the verse that we're pretty familiar with, for the Word of God is living and active, and sharper than any two edged sword, and piercing as far as the division of soul and spirit of both joints and marrow, and able to judge the thoughts and intentions of the heart. And there is no creature hidden from His side. But all things are open and laid bare to the eyes of Him with whom we had to do y'all study this past Wednesday night when skipped was teaching class for me. Look at this, and another version, this A New Century Version, about the truth of God, the Word of God. God's word is alive and working in a sharper than a double edged sword. It cuts all the way into us, where the soul and the spirit are joined to the center of our joints and bones. In it judges the thoughts and feelings in our heart. Nothing in all the world can be hidden from God, everything is clear and lies open before him. and to Him we must explain the way we have lived. So we understand that God's word is such that it is true, it completely reveals our hearts and our minds, even our thoughts and emotions. So again, it's reminded that God's truth is unstoppable. Thirdly, I want to suggest to us this morning, that God's love is unstoppable. So we're talking about some things this morning in Scripture that are unstoppable. Again, I want to suggest to us that God's love is unstoppable. One of the passages that we would think about, if we talk about love is First Corinthians chapter 13, which talks about the characteristics of love, love number, lovers, patient is kind is gentle, and all that type of thing. But Verse eight says that love never ends or love never fails. So think about that. If we practice love for God, and love for our spouses, our children, and even develop a proper love for ourselves. Love never fails. And so we see that message in Scripture. Let's look at a couple of examples. In Jeremiah, chapter 31, the first three verses, Jeremiah is preaching to the people of Judah who had been in captivity because of their sins. And now God's gonna restore them. And ultimately, they think this is a reference to the fulfillment and God's kingdom that were a part of today. But notice what what drove God to bring his people out of captivity out of sin, back into a right relationship with Him, says at that time, declares the Lord, I will be the God of all the clans of Israel, and they shall be my people. Thus says the Lord, the people who survived the sword, found grace in the wilderness, when Israel sought for rest. The Lord appeared to him from far away. So these people had been through incredible suffering, hardship, oppression, by the enemy. And what what motivated God in verse three? He said, I have loved you with an ever lasting love. Can you imagine everlasting love, that's the love that God has for his people as to love that he showed for his people of Israel and Judah, as also the love that He has for you and for me, and love that overcomes the difficulties that we face and therefore, I have continued my faithfulness to you. So again, sir, reality is reminder that God's love is eternal in nature, and he's telling us people when they've been living in sin, idolatry, adultery and lies and deception, all that kind of stuff, and they would turn their lives around. He's saying to them, that I have loved you with an everlasting love and guess who else God loves, with an everlasting love. You and me? Powerful love that that should calm our anxious minds as we struggle with some uncertainties that we go through in this life we've been thinking about this pandemic this COVID virus but it's it is winding down and God is bigger than the things that we we face in This life. Another passage that comes to mind is John chapter three verses 16 and 17. When we think about the fact that God's love is unstoppable, nothing could stop Jesus and God the Father from reaching people with the gospel, saving their souls. This is the New Living Translation. It says, This is how God loved the world. He gave His one and only Son, that everyone who believes in Him will not perish but have eternal life. God sent His Son into the world not to judge the world, but to save the world through Him. So again, every time we observe the Lord's Supper, we're reminded of the magnitude of God's love for you. And for me, washing away all our sins, and cleansing us from all unrighteousness. So again, it's a reminder that that God's love is unstoppable. You cannot stop his love, it will continue to march on just like his truth will, one of the points this morning. Use me that I want you to think about me add another thought here in just a moment. But I want to suggest to each of us that God's judgment day is also unstoppable. So we're thinking about things that are unstoppable. That word caught my attention, like said a few weeks ago. And it really kind of repeated my mind on on what this thing means. While we think this this fourth point this morning, that God's judgment is unstoppable passage that we would think about, relating to this as Acts chapter 17, verse 30. So Paul's on Mars Hill of the area, because he's these engaging these philosophers and there's so much sand there's so much Paul's teaching this, so many things that are not right. And so there's a lot of things going on in basically in verse 30, says that, that God overlooked the times of ignorance, if some point of time he overlooked the times of this ignorance. But God is now declaring command that all people everywhere should repent. And the reason is because he has fixed a day in which he will judge the world in righteousness. Focusing on the coming day of judgment is one of the most clarifying actions that we can we can do ourselves, that God has fixed the day in which you will judge the world in righteousness. And another part of that phrase, I want us to think about the numerical standard puts it this way, I think most will say something similar to this that God has fixed a day. He's already fixed a day of judgment. I don't know what it is. You don't know what it is. And I think that's by God's design, because he wants us to be ready for the day that he is fixed, in which he's going to judge all of human history through Jesus Christ. And by demonstrating that He raised Him from the dead. Excuse me a second time around, my voice is a little bit raspy. But I think we'll make make our way through that. He says he's fixed the day in which he will judge the world in righteousness through a man whom he is appointed, having furnished proof to all men by raising Him from the dead. And so you look at this passage in Acts chapter 17, it's reminder that the day of judgment is unstoppable. We can't slow it down, we can't avoid it, we can't escape it, we can't, we can't delay it. The only thing we can really do from a biblical perspective is to think about it and to speed it up. In fact, in Second Peter, chapter three, verses 10 through 12. And Peters talking about the coming day, the Lord is going to come like a thief in verse 10, in which the heavens will pass away with a roar, and the elements will be destroyed with intensity in the earth, and his works will be burned up this what's going to happen to this world is going to be destroyed. Since all these things are to be destroyed in this way, what sort of people aren't you to be in holy conduct and godliness. And look at a couple of phrases over here, looking for looking forward to thinking about reaching forward minimize looking for and hastening the coming of the day of God, because of which the heavens will be destroyed by burning in the elements will melt for the intensity. So there's two things that God is telling us to do in this burst. We need to be looking forward to the day of judgment. Why? Because that's when God brings about just justice to this world punishes sin. He rewards those of us who are serving Him by faith. Thinking about that, and then the second thing he said is we need to be hastening again. We don't use that word in our vocabulary very much but to hasten something means to speed it up. We use the illustration if you're going to take a vacation go someplace across the country go down to Florida, like we just did to go out west to Yosemite, when you think about face, and wow, I can't wait to stand in front of that massive rock. And so all of a sudden that vacation even six months away or a year away is in your mind today. When you hasten the day of judgment and see yourself standing before the, the all seeing eye of God, it helps us to remember what's most important. It's not how much money you have in the bank or your investments. It's not how what kind of a big house that you have it don't have. What's most important is doing God's will. So concerning the Day of Judgment, debt is unstoppable. Let's be thinking about it is coming closer. And, again, we don't speculate. We don't know when that could happen. But we do remind ourselves, it could be any day now. Could be tomorrow, if tomorrow comes. So so that's what Peter's telling these Christians to do, to speed up the day of judgment, because what that makes us think about and to add another thought to my lesson this morning, my wife suggested some others said, eternity is unstoppable. Eternity is unstoppable. And we're moving in that direction. So let's review quickly. We said this morning that because God is unstoppable, his kingdom is unstoppable. His truth is unstoppable. His love is unstoppable. And his judgment day is unstoppable. These things are fixed, they're not going to change, they're not going to fade in any way at all. And so a view of that, again, it should give us a great deal of comfort. If we've obeyed the gospel of Christ, we're in the Best, the Only kingdom that will last for all eternity. Why would a person not want to be part of this and choose a life of sin and uncertainty and fear and worry, putting your trust in stocks in investments and that type of thing. But being in God's kingdom is the best place to be one of the things I want to add one more thing this unstoppable and that is your death. Your death is coming to you and to me, we're all going to die. And even if we happen to be alive, when Jesus returns in judgment, our lives will be at an end at that point. So again, it's a reminder that death is unstoppable. The way to prepare for that is through loving God, obeying His will I trust that we've all done that this morning. But just by way of reminder, the way a person becomes a Christian is to faith in Jesus Christ, repenting of our sins, confessing our faith in him and then being baptized to have our sins forgiven. That puts us into an eternal kingdom that will never ever come to an end where truth and love will reign for all eternity. If there's anyone here that needs to be part of God's kingdom, we can assist you this morning or if you just need prayers, for the struggles and honestly we're facing struggles is discouragement. There's sometimes depression that we as human beings can wrestle with but that's why we extend the invitation. If we can pray with you, and for you, we say as we've been learning in the book of Hebrews that that Jesus knows your pain, He knows your anxiousness, He knows your sometimes you'd despair. And we if we can pray with you, and for you would be glad to do so invite you to come over stand and sing this invitation song


Transcribed by https://otter.ai