Jeremy Sweets  00:14
Well, good morning. Certainly good to see everyone here today, it's certainly good to be able to come here and worship our God. So I'm thankful that you're here. And I'm thankful to be here with you as we we worship. I'd like to talk about a subject this morning, why I am non institutional, why I am non institutional. And I'll warn you that you really need to pay attention, Kyle and the kids class said that the kids need to pay attention. And they're going to be asking you possibly questions about the serpent, chocolate a little bit when I, when I heard that, I hope there are lessons in here, even for children. But this can be a little complicated at times. But I hope overall, the message will still be clear. I'll mention that I'm institutional, non institutional, at least in part, because that's the way I was raised. That's what my parents taught me. And I was part of the group that I was with. And that's what they told me was true. But I've always tried to take the things that I was taught, and study those things. It's not good enough to have your parents faith, you need to study these things for yourself. Even quibbling over the title of the lesson. I'm a Christian. So that's my primary identity. Why do I this is why I take a position on non institutional, I could have expanded that. But the wording may be a little bit important there. I, I am a Christian first and foremost, I'm not trying to bypass that I'm not trying to be a part of any sect or group or denominate myself in that way, I see myself as fully a Christian. But you have to realize that when you become a Christian, you take positions on biblical doctrines. And so this is one of those positions. As I talk about this, I realized that there may be half of you that even know what I'm talking about with non institutionalism. And half, you may really not even know what I'm talking about. So hopefully, we'll get into some definition of terms as we look at this. But first, let's look at a a history of the stone Campbell movement. Some people call this the restoration movement. And so this was a movement by a group of individuals in the early 19th century, that made a claim that we need to go back to the Bible. We need to remove all manmade creeds, and simply go back to the Bible. Now that's a position I can get behind. We need to go back to scriptures and look at scriptures and let it be our guide, not man, but God. And so that's what we need to seek to do. They claim that the church had been corrupted over the centuries by the manmade positions and creeds that have been placed upon on top of the Bible. And fellowship was determined not upon the Bible, but upon creeds. And so with that, they said, We don't want to take the Bible plus all of these Creed's, we want to get back to the Bible. We don't want to corrupt the church, they said, but we want a pure church to be the church of the New Testament. And so we find that these men made this position. It's called the stone Campbell movement, because it's based upon primarily those two individuals as the thought leaders in the movement. They actually were part of different groups, Alexander Campbell was part of the disciples of Christ. That's what they called themselves. But again, they made the same claim. And we see that Barton stone was part of another group, and they wanted to be called Christians, Christians only, not a Presbyterian or anything like that. But Christians and Christians only in 1832, we see that these two different groups merged together, as they had this platform of teaching of removing creeds and getting back to the Bible. I was that nerdy kid in high school that read all these history books about the church and all of this. So I've had an interest in this for a while. We say that there are three streams, three groups of people that have come out of the stone Campbell movement. And this division would have taken place really right at the beginning of the 20th century, the end of the 19th, beginning of the 20th century. And so there were issues that began to be debated among them. And one quick other note about this as these groups ought to be Christians only, and salts were Remove creeds, they had a very rich heritage of debate and open dialogue, there's not going to be a hierarchy that tells us what to believe. And so we have to all study this for ourselves. And so there's this democratic understanding of, we're all going to study. And as we study this, we're going to debate this out, because it requires each and every individual that studies this, and then we come to conclusions as we reason together. And so that's part of this, this heritage that comes from the stone Campbell movement. But at the end of the 19th century, beginning of the 20th century, really, it had been happening over several decades, there were issues that began to divide the people there. One of those was the Missionary Society, creating a society where all the churches would gather together, pull their funds and send a missionary out from that common society. That happened in 1850, Alexander Campbell was actually behind that. And that created some division and some problems. Later on, there will be a discussion on can we use instrumental music in worship? Is that valid? There are a group that were proponents that said, we can do that. And there was a group that said, we cannot do that. Okay, so that brings us to the beginning of the 20th century, when the churches of Christ split away from what was at that time a single group, disciples of Christ slash Christian churches. Now those two groups would divide later, that's how we get those as two separate groups. But from what we see, and the beginning of the 20th century, a group that called themselves the churches of Christ would would be a separate fellowship, a separate fellowship. Some people points in 1906, is when that started. One of the men from the government called David Lipscomb, who the college is named after here in town and said, Are you the same group with these other individuals that have the Missionary Society, he said, No, we're a separate group. And again, that had come after decades of, of the vision on these issues. And then finally, they said, We are a separate group. So that's where we see the churches of Christ. Now the churches of Christ beginning in 1900, have had several issues of which they have disputed and debated. And at times, there have been fellowships that have separated because of that. One of those was the the number of cups, the number of drinking vessels will use in the Lord's Supper, one group said it is according to the pattern, that there is only one cup, that's what we find in Scripture. And so that is necessary, and to do otherwise, would be sinful. And so there was a division of a smaller group of those that claimed to have one cup. Sometimes they would also say that we need to not have Bible classes that we should be one group and not split up. We also see there was a division around 1920s to 30s, over Premillennialism, the belief that that Jesus Christ, or return after 1000 year reign among the disciples, and so that's a involved philosophical doctrine that does have some practical implications. But there was a division that happened over that, as well. So a smaller group of premillennial churches, again, split off the issue that I'm going to be talking about occurred and really post World War Two, America. And that's when the question of whether the church can use and be a part of separate institutions, parish church organization organizations, in order to do the work of the church. That's a mouthful isn't the questions from the kids are coming, I'm sure. In particular, educational institutions and social organizations, for example, a college a so called Christian College, can the church support a Christian college? Is that part of what the church is supposed to do? Or an orphans home? For example, this was common during that time, can the church support and orphans home from the church treasury? So that's the issue at hand. And that's what I would like to talk about just a few moments this morning. That's what we see. Okay, I hope I've defined the terms. But just to get to the point of this main street group was was the larger group and a smaller group that made a separate fellowship non institutional, sometimes be called aunty, I went to Lipscomb University from 2003 to 2012. and all the students that were there, many of them had Church of Christ backgrounds had never even heard of this issue. So that's why I even started with the fact that you may not even know what I'm talking about. But this, this is what I'm trying to, to uncover and, and talk about. But just to give you a quick background, I know time is marching on and try to do this quickly. But after World War Two, there was a great energy among all churches in the United States, and including Churches of Christ. And remember, World War Two had wreaked havoc upon the world, there was a lot of death and destruction on a wide scale basis. And so after that, there was a great deal of optimism, of taking the world for Christ. And so that involved GE eyes coming back from the war, and there was a lot of money put in from the government. And so that went into getting an education. And so there was a promotion of Christian education to be able to take advantage of those funds. There was also mission work that increased by tenfold, as we sought to send missionaries to those places that had caused a lot of havoc to Germany, and Italy, they needed the cause of Christ. And so there is this idea of building bigger and better and pushing and pursuing for Christ on a worldwide and on a large scale. Okay, and that includes even orphans, many, many children were made orphans through the World War. And so there is an effort to utilize that to bring them in and to take care of them. So that's a quick history about some things that have happened. Now with that World War Two enthusiasm, post World War Two enthusiasm, we see that churches of Christ as a group decided they wanted to, to do things on a larger scale. And so I want to talk about some things in our own backyard. In October 1962. This group was formed at Ewing lane, most of those came from the bell Shire church. But it started at Ewing languages across the street from Dickerson, and a little building in 1962 was a small group, I put a lot of work into fixing the building up that was happening in October 1962. At that same time, churches of Christ in Nashville and surrounding areas were putting on a gospel meeting, unlike any had seen before. Well, maybe they'd seen a little bit in the 20s and 30s. They rented out the Ryman and invited the city to here in B Hardiman. And this was a larger gospel meeting than even those. And so you see, this is on the front page of the tennis scene. And this is a picture of the Municipal Auditorium. It was brand new, never been used before state of the art $5 million facility. And the first event to take place there was a church of Christ gospel meeting, I use that term loosely. And so there are 13,000 that packed this auditorium. This was supported by 93 churches as they pull their funds and supported the Charlotte Avenue Church of Christ, to be able to have this meeting to to proclaim and announce the cause of Christ. On that first night, it said that there were reportedly four to 6000 that were turned away. And so there was a massive group of people that came to hear the gospel. This was an eight day long gospel meeting. Willard Collins did the preaching McElwain. Craig did the did the song leading Athens clay polis was involved in the organization, organizing of it, and Ben West was the mayor at that time, and he was reportedly a member of churches of Christ. And so this is what was called the Collins creg meeting. As we pulled all of these groups and wanting to preach and proclaim the gospel. To my knowledge, the group at Ewing lane and those around here did not participate in this type of collective activity. Okay, that's one thing that happened. Another issue or another thing in our back door is Ira North was the preacher for the Madison Church of Christ. You can go up Gallatin. Gallatin, go up a little ways, and you will, will come to the Madison Church of Christ. 1952 ira North began to preach there and they had about 400 members. By the end of the next year they had swelled to 1200 million numbers. And so he would create or develop or bring, bring forth a mega church really before that term was used. The following year, they would set a Sunday school Bible class record of having over 2300 people and that gain national news. By 1981, I believe it is there would have 8400 is the high mark. And so this was a massive church that did a lot of things in a lot of big ways. They had a lot of programs, programs that helped handicapped children had a their own orphans homes group of homes that they created and supported senior living, they had a food pantry, they were involved in big things in big ways. And that church was a hustle and bustle of activity. Okay. And so Ira North was a promoter of this idea of bigger and better. In fact, he, he said that churches should consolidate. If you're a small church, you need to get with another church so that you can have more funds and more money so that you can support bigger and more, you know, grander or schemes and things to do. So this is Ira north, he would have been known on a national scale again, they created the their auditorium after the Ryman Auditorium that would seat 3000 They had multiple services. I had an Amazing Grace Bible class hour that aired every Sunday night, I had a no your Bible Quiz. Again, Nashville citizens and even on a national scale would have been aware of the kind of things that were happening here. bigger and better things, greater things for Christ. There was also the Herald of truth. The herald of truth was a program a preaching ministry supported by the fourth and Highland church, Christ in Abilene, Texas. And they sponsor this work, but they encouraged other churches to send their money and their funds so that they could proclaim Christ to to the world. In the 50s, they had something like 260 radio programs and 50 stations were where this gospel programming was heard in the 70s, that nearly doubled or something along those lines. One of the men involved with that was battle Barrett Baxter, who was a teacher at David Lipscomb college. And, and he spoke on behalf of this he attended Hillview. So again, making some Nashville connections to all of these things. It's my understanding and knowledge, Ewing lane, and bra Morin came here in 1972, did not participate in these kinds of activities. Okay. So what are the differences involved in this debate in this discussion? In my mind, there are really three kind of ideas that were hammered about biblical interpretation, view of the church, and then a broad category, I've labeled as scriptural principles, scriptural principles. So this is a big subjects, hours and hours of debate occurred on it. So this is a very quick overview of some of these things. But you'll notice that when it comes to biblical interpretation, both sides agree that there was a pattern from the New Testament that was to be followed. If you think back to Campbell, he says that we're going to go back to the Bible, and part of that was doing what they did, and nothing else. speak where the Bible speaks, be silent, where the Bible silent, if we do what they did, then there can be a greater unity among believers, we don't have to be so divided in practice that that came to be a challenge that came to be a quest and a process. So both groups, the mainstream and the non institutional, looked for patterns in Scripture, and they would use commands, examples and inferences and as they would consider a subject today, should we do this practice they would talk about general and specific authority, they would categorize items according to whether there was a coordinate was something else his subordinates so that they could understand was this kind of thing or this practice authorized. And so those debates took place. Athens clay Poulos, preached a sermon, where there is no pattern. So the point I want to want to make here is they both agreed on a pattern but they disagreed on where the pattern applied, where the pattern applied, is their authority they would argue for Using an orphans home for the church supporting that, what's a good thing to help orphans? We know that from James one. But is that the church's responsibility? That was the question. Athens Klipfolio said, this is an example where there is no specified pattern. And so we are free to act, as as we see fit their expediency in the way we see fit. There were others that shot back at that and said, This is a place where there is a pattern. Just a quick point, Athens, Clay polios was not saying there is no pattern. He's saying, in this case, we do not find a pattern. There's a lot that could be discussed there. And I'm not going to spend much more time there. There came to be a discussion about the church. The argument was made that anything an individual could do, like helping orphans, is something the church can do. And so we need to understand that the Bible talks about the church in different ways, there are different senses there. One of those is a universal church. For example, we see in Matthew 16, and verse 18, Jesus tells Peter, I tell you, you're Peter, and on this rock, I will build my church, and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it. Here, there is a sense of a singular church, the church that belongs to Christ, the church for which Christ died. And this is we might think of in a universal sense, a singular sense in which it's used. A couple of chapters later in Matthew 18, Jesus says, If you have problems with your brothers, you need to go and see them. And if that doesn't work, take two or three witnesses. And if that doesn't work, tell it to the church where you are. And so that's another sense not a universal sense, but more of a local sense. But here we see this universal concept, okay, this universal concepts. There is also a local church, a local church, the local church is a group of Christians that regularly assemble in a location, the name of this name of this place. Broadmoor is that streets and we're the Christians that meet at Broadmoor, we regularly assemble here, we live in this area, and we come here to work and worship. We are a local congregation, in First Corinthians one and verse two, says to the church of God that is in Corinth, to those sanctified in Christ Jesus, called to be saints, together with all those who in every place call upon the name of our Lord Jesus Christ. Notice that this letter was written to a location, but there's also awareness that they're not the only church, so to speak, but there, there's also other saints that call upon the name in other locations. Okay. So here we see this idea of the local church. In fact, when Paul was rebuking the Corinthians For their practice of the Lord's Supper, in First Corinthians 11, and 18, it says, For in the first place, when you come together as a church, the church is an assembly. And so we see the local congregation as one that that comes together in that assembly. Now, there's one other sense in which churches use I'm not sure this was a part of the debate, but this is how I've looked at things, and that is the scattered church, and X eight. We see that there are rows a great persecution, it says against the church in Jerusalem, and they were all scattered throughout the regions of Judea and Samaria, except the apostles. Not sure exactly what all to make of this or how this fits in, I brought it in because that was, that's what I see. And that is that the church even when they left there is still some sense of being that church. And so when we leave here, I still feel a sense of being part of Broadmoor. And the way that I live and act reflects upon Broadmoor, where I work and worship. And so when we leave the assembly, there's still some sense of church. Now, you might disagree with that. Maybe you use the word individual. We are individual Christians when they're there, and I could buy that concept as well. It's interesting as I look at these things, there's a man named Abraham Kuyper. Another interesting thing to me is that reformed thinkers, those that are Presbyterians and Calvinist, now do not agree with Calvinism. But many times the debates they have on the church are very similar to some of these things, because they to look at the Bible. Many of them have had those divisions over whether we have to have exactly what it says and do that. or whether there's freedom as long as it's not prohibited. Okay. Abraham Kuyper said that the church is both an institution and an organism. There is this collective idea and particulars to how we worship. And that is part of this institution. But it's also an organism made of individuals and people as they go, go out. Maybe that's helpful. Maybe it's not. But we see different senses of the church under discussion. So let me tell you why I am non institutional. This is a personal sermon. In many ways, when I was at Lipscomb, and I spent hours again, I was that nerd. I know, this doesn't relate to a lot of people. But I was at Nerd flipping page by page, the the gospel advocate, as I read through periodicals in the 40s 50s, and 60s. And so I looked at these debates as they happened on the ground, I'd heard these things growing up. But as I read those debates as they happened, I will simply say that it is a difficult debate. And as I read those things, sometimes it's difficult to understand exactly which side you would be on, you would listen to this side and say, well, that's right. And then you'd listen to the opposite side, you say, well, that's right. So all that to say is that it can be a difficult subject. But I've come to take a non institutional position. And these are the reasons why. First of all, because of the Heavenly Nature of the universal church, now, we talked about a universal church. But I do not believe the universal church is anything that functions here on Earth, the Universal Church is an assembly, but it's an assembly in heaven. And so our relationship with God is defined by being part of that universal church. And that is a relationship we have to God. In Hebrews 12, and verse 22. There it says, But you have come to Mount Zion, and to the city of the living God, the heavenly Jerusalem, and to innumerable angels and festal gathers and to the assembly of the firstborn who are enrolled in heaven, and to God at mentions into the spirits and the Jesus Christ. And so we see here that this is an assembly of the firstborn who are enrolled in heaven, I think to Revelation, when all of God's saints from all times gather in the throne, that is the church, there is a sense in which as we belong to God, we belong part of this universal church. But I do not see in scripture where the universal church has any function here on Earth. In fact, I think you get into trouble when you began to, to find functions there for the church. I'll give you an example. The Roman Catholic Church in the fourth century, decided to organize and develop hierarchies. It didn't just happen in the fourth century, there was development to all of that, but there is a hierarchy. And they elected a single official that said that they could speak on behalf of the Holy Catholic, which means universal church, there is a hierarchy overall of the church. And you have to be a part of that group, the Roman Catholic Church, in order to be saved. And so I do not believe that the church, the Universal Church has any earthly function and we when we tried to engage the universal church or speak before and behalf of all churches, I think that leads to problems. That's one reason I am non institution. I think when you begin to pull funds and gather in the funds, and create works for other churches that are out there, whether it be in a city like Nashville and the Collins Craig meeting, or be like that herald of truth, where we get funds from all over the country. I think that's problematic. You're engaging more than the local church. And you are bypassing this heavenly nature of the universal church. There's also the autonomy of the local church. I am non institutional, because I believe that each local church is autonomous again, this is another question for the kids to ask their parents autonomy. That word simply means self rule, self governments. Broadmoor is not beholden to a headquarters that stationed in Washington DC or Nashville or, or anywhere else, to where we take the directions from one person or one group that decides how we will work and worship. Instead, the church here makes decisions for itself. In flip One in verse one, the letter there was addressed to the flip Ian church. And it says to the saints to all the saints in Christ Jesus who were in Philippi. With the overseers and deacons. The local church was organized with elders and deacons, and they could make decisions for themselves. And by I say, when I say making decisions for themselves, they would submit themselves to God's word, but there are many judgments that need to be made outside of what the Bible teaches. And so they would make decisions on those things and even come to understanding of how they would interpret and understand God's Word. In First Peter chapter five, we see Peter as he exhorts elders. Notice what he says in verse one. So exalt the elders among you as a fellow elver and witness or I exhort as a fellow elder and witness of the sufferings of Christ, as well as a partaker in the glory that is going to be revealed, shepherd the flock of God that is among you, exercising oversight, not under compulsion, but willingly as God would have you. Not for shameful gain, but eagerly, not domineering over those in your charge, but being examples to the flock. elders were put in, in every church in Acts chapter 14. And Peter tells the church here to shepherd the flock that is among you, the group that is among you, the elders here are not responsible for Kemper heights, or another church in Nashville, they're not responsible for a church in Bowling Green, or in any other place. And so this group is self governing based upon those officials, there is an autonomy to the local church. I think this is violated when we find programs like the Herald of truth, that would pull funds from everywhere, so that they would decide and pick who would preach the gospel. Now think about what is happening there. One preacher gets up and says, I'm speaking to you on behalf of the churches of Christ. All the churches of Christ. This is the message from all of the churches of Christ. I think that can be problematic. What if you're a church, you say, wait a minute, I agree with 95% of what he said. But I don't agree with that. And so he would speak upon that. And I think that would violate this idea of the local church being autonomous. Let me add that if we take the local autonomy or the autonomy of the local church seriously, then this group will make decisions for this group. For what is best for this group. We don't have to say, but this church over there, does it and this is the way I've always done it. What if we had services on Tuesday night, which I'm not promoting, I'm just using this as an example, if we wanted to do that, and that's what we could do. If we decided that's what's best for this group, we don't have to say, Yeah, but every other church does it Wednesday. That's how I did it growing up. Now this church will decide what is best for itself, again, within the dictates of God's word. But local autonomy means that each group decides what will they think of us, those other churches, if we do something different, it doesn't matter. It doesn't matter completely. I'm also non institutional because of the mission of the church. Within the debates that happened, we see that there were parish church or other organizations that were set up that that move the church into the sphere, of working with orphans and social programs, getting into education. The question came up, could a church also build a hospital or a group of churches come together and build a hospital? That's a good thing? Is that what the church should be engaged in? I believe the church's mission is gospel centered and spiritual in nature. In First Timothy three in verse 15, refers to the church of the living God is the pillar and buttress or support of the truth. God's word is to be proclaimed and go forth from the church. Our mission is to preach the gospel. And I say that understanding and knowing that we live in a world with many social ills, many problems that are out there, many things the church can, could be doing and many things many churches are doing as far as reforming society and bringing physical healing to the world. Should the church be involved in those things? In First Timothy five and verse 16. There are talks about the church can support provide support for those that are widows indeed, but it should not provide support for every widow. And verse 16, it says this, If any believing woman has relatives who are widows, let her care for them. Let the church not be burdened so that it may care for those who are truly widows. The point from this passage is that individuals need to take care of their responsibility as individuals as that scattered churches, they go out, and the church needs to focus on their mission, and not be burdened with other affairs so that they can not focus on their mission, the mission of the church to preach and proclaim the gospel. Does that mean we see someone that needs help, and we say, I'm only going to tell you the gospel, I can't do anything else. Now there's a lot of things that we will see as individuals as we go out into the world. Many needs that we will see and I hope that you do what you can to help in those situations. But the question is for the local assembly here that meets it, Bob Moore is that the work to get involved in social reform and welfare Ephesians four, which is the passage I have listed here says that, that he gave a God gave the apostles, prophets, evangelists, shepherds and teachers to equip the saints, for the work of ministry, for the building up of the body, the church has been given individuals that would be able to preach and proclaim God's word, not only for the group, but also going out and teaching the last. God has provided these things so that the church can build itself up and speak the truth, and love. If you read through that passage in Ephesians, 411, through 16, you'll see a focus and an emphasis upon upon teaching, and not upon false doctrine and other things don't don't follow those things, but upon what is true and rise. Here we see the mission of the church. Another curiosity that I'll simply mention real quick, and that is Tim Keller is a popular preacher today. Again, he's a reformed thinker, and he has a book called generous justice. And what she says the Christians need to be engaged and involved in helping others, we need to be generous, we need to seek to bring justice to others. But I found it interesting. At the end of his book, he says that if you're going to develop some kind of organization to do this, it needs to be separate and apart from the church, so that the church won't be burdened. Now he doesn't use that exact language. But that's the point that he makes. I found that to be interesting. I'm also known as the traditional because of the responsibility of each and every Christian. I believe that every Christian is to be a worker. In first Peter two and verse five, it says, You yourselves, like living stones are being built up as a spiritual house to be a holy priesthood. Every Christian is a priest, you are not waiting are beholden to a clergy that sits over top of you that must intercede to God for you. Every Christian can pray to God. Every Christian is a priest that can bring worship to God. You are not again beholden to the clergy. This is true when it comes to the Roman Catholic Church. And it's also true when it comes to thinking about other organizations and institutions. Ervin Lee spoke of Christianity and he was a non institutional Christian from Northern Alabama. And he said this about Christianity. It is a do it yourself religion. We need to be busy and active and engaged in the work of Lord each and every one of us. This work is more than passing a check into the plates. I believe we collect money and we use that for a reason. But your work as a Christian is not fulfilled simply when that happens. It is more than outsourcing or completing work by proxy. When I talk about being workers, I'm aware of the fact that Madison church probably put most people to shame when it came to working. They were a working church. But also believe this idea of creating these institutions can develop a mindset in which we think I've done my work when I give money to this orphans home in the Inman Willis debate, again, one of those things I read that when I was growing up, one of the points that seemed Willis made is, for all this talk about being an anti and anti orphan, which is how non institutional people were described, if you look at the Faculty of Florida College, which was a institution associated with members of churches of Christ, not supported with funds from the church, but nearly every single one of them had adopted or put up orphans in their own home. Now, these examples don't prove the biblical point. But I think that might makes a point in my mind, the church does not need to get involved in creating all these institutions, we need to get busy doing the work. And let me just say that if we take a non institutional position seriously, then we will be workers. It's not just institutionalism that can create a mindset where I pass my money and plate my works done, that mindset can happen among us. And shame on us. If it does. Christianity is a do it yourself, religion, get busy working, not and doing things for God. Every Christian has a responsibility. Let me conclude with this remark. Churches of Christ and post World War Two America crowed for bigger and better things in Christianity. There was many articles that were written on the greatness of Christianity, we can do great things for God, we can be bigger and better. And as we grow and and collect together and have collectivities, we can accomplish so much more. There was a case made for big Christianity. And while I don't want to cast aspersions upon the integrity, or the the intentions of any of those, those men, I understand that concept, God can do bigger and better things, and we can think or imagine, but I guess I would make a case for small Christianity. Where local congregations of individuals go out and do good as they see fit, not from a machinery or a bureaucracy or a hierarchy of which everyone must plug into to be a part of Christianity. I'll tell you that the big picture of Christianity may work in a wealthy country. We take for granted how wealthy this country is, and the money that's available and all these buildings and institutions we can make. But small Christianity works anywhere, at any time. And that's what I see disciples in the New Testament practicing, coming together. As local churches, of disciples committed to God, preaching and proclaiming the gospel to their neighbors and doing good to those around them. I would make a case for small Christianity. The kids are telling me it's time to be done. If you're here this morning, and you're not a Christian, you have an opportunity to obey the gospel message believing that Jesus is the Christ, repenting of your sins, confessing Jesus Christ and being baptized in him for remission of your sins. If you're here today and you're a Christian, but you're not honoring the commitment you made you two need to make changes, whatever it is, whatever your need is, make it known so you can be right with the Lord this very day. There's any subject to the invitation please come as we stand and sing at this time.


Transcribed by https://otter.ai