Matt Harber  00:12
Good morning. It's wonderful to be with you again. So good to see the top half of all of your faces. It's always a pleasure for Katie and me and the kids to be back here with the Broadmoor congregation, as the Apostle Paul says, In the beginning of his letter to the Philippians, we give thanks to God upon our every remembrance of you. Always praying with joy for all of you in every prayer, because of your partnership in the Gospel from this first day, from the first day until now. And we hold you all in our hearts and our prayers, and we pray that you will do the same for us. And it's such a privilege to be able to open God's word with you now and I pray that you will open your Bibles to the book of Philippians. That's where we'll be spending the book, the bulk of our time this morning. I appreciate so much JDS work in selecting the songs to fit the lesson. And those songs really do lead in very well to the thoughts that we will be considering from the Apostle Paul today. So we're going to focus on Philippians chapter two. I'll also have the text up on the screen as well. The passages that I'll be reading will come from the English Standard Version. Let's begin by reminding ourselves of what the Apostle Paul says in Philippians chapter two, hopefully a very familiar passage for all of us, but it bears repeating and rereading. The Apostle says, so if there is any encouragement, in Christ, any comfort from love, any participation in the spirit, any affection and sympathy, complete my joy by being of the same mind. Having the same love being in full accord and of one mind, do nothing from selfish ambition or conceit. But in humility, count others more significant than yourselves. Let each of you look not only to his own interests, but also to the interests of others. Have this mind among yourselves which is yours in Christ Jesus, who, though he was in the form of God, did not count equality with God a thing to be grasped, but emptied Himself, by taking the form of a servant, being born in the likeness of men. And being found in human form, he humbled himself by becoming obedient to the point of death, even death on a cross. Therefore, God has highly exalted him and bestowed on him the name that is above every name, so that at the name of Jesus, every knee should bow, in heaven and on earth, and under the earth, and every tongue confess that Jesus Christ is Lord, to the glory of God the Father, therefore, my beloved, as you have always obeyed, so now, not only as in my presence, but much more, in my absence, work out your own salvation with fear and trembling, for it is God who works in you both to will and to work for His good pleasure. And it's those last two verses that we'll focus our attention on for the next few minutes. Work out your own salvation with fear and trembling. I'll begin this morning with a bit of a confession. I do not like to work out. My beloved wife who loves me very much and is concerned about me. And my well being in all aspects of life recently encouraged me that's the word I'll use to purchase a gym membership. And I can see the appeal, I can see the draw, it's convenient. They do a lot of the things for you, they set up the equipment, they have the AC on, they have the TV on to distract you from the pain that you're inflicting on yourself. There's lots of nice things there at the gym. But at the end of the day, when you strip it all down, you still have to work out. And I can't say that I always enjoy it or that I look forward to it. In fact, when I go to the gym it is with much fear and trembling. But I can't say that it's the most enjoyable experience. But of course we all understand it's ultimately, for our good, we work out for our own good. Paul has a needed word of encouragement for the Christians in Philippi. In this section of the letter, even the mirror fact or the circumstances of the writing of this letter, would have been an encouragement, I think, to the Philippians, Paul being imprisoned, being in a hard place, but radiating joy through the words of this letter, joy and the salvation that He has the hope that he has, through Jesus Christ, despite his circumstances, and he uses his experience, his experiences, his trials, his sufferings, to encourage the Philippians, and by extension to encourage us as well. And I think these words are words that we, as the Lord's church today need to hear, they are words of encouragement, they are also words of admonition and rebuke at times, but they are all with the goal of building up the body of Christ, to the glory of God. And these verses that we're focusing on Philippians, 2:12 and 13. The therefore verses are, of course, tied by that, therefore, to what he has just said, the famous passage in verses five through 11, describing the humility of Jesus who, though he was in the form of God took on the form of a servant became obedient to the point of death, and then God highly exalts him, so that everyone would bow the knee to Jesus, those words that gospel presentation lead right into Paul's exhortation to us in verses 12 and 13, therefore. And so we want to think about what Paul is saying, in these two verses through the lens of three questions. What does it mean to work out your own salvation with fear and trembling? Well, I think we can think about this phrase in terms of who, how, and why. So if you're taking notes, that's our three point, lesson, or today. Good biblical number of points, right? Three points, who, how, and why. So let's consider each of those in turn, as we think about what it is Paul is trying to encourage us to do when he says, work out your own salvation with fear and trembling. Well, the first question, Who? The we could answer this question a couple of different ways, I suppose. But the first question we might ask is, who works out salvation? Who works out salvation? Well, obviously, Paul is speaking to the Christians in Philippi. And this is phrased in the form of a command and imperative, work out your own salvation. And so by extension, of course, Paul is also speaking to us. So the answer, in some sense to this question, who works out salvation is we do, because we're being commanded to? We do. But just as obviously, in this passage, if we read the next line, we see that Paul is showing us that salvation is God's work. Salvation is something God does that God characteristically does, that He desires to do that it is His good pleasure to do. And that any work that we as Christians can do toward that end is ultimately by God's power, much as that song that we just sang before the lesson, channels only God's power is flowing through us as we work. That seems to be the point in verse 13. And so this is also clear, not just from these two verses, but from what Paul has just said in the preceding chapter, you may recall toward the end of chapter one, when Paul is encouraging the Philippians with regard to some opponents, to some detractors to some who might be a discouragement. He says in chapter one, verses 27, through 29, only let your manner of life be worthy of the gospel of Christ so that whether I come and see you or am absent, I may hear a view that you are standing firm and one Spirit, with one mind striving side by side or the faith of the gospel and not frightened in anything by your opponents. This is a clear sign to them of their destruction, but of your salvation, and that that is your salvation from God. Or it has been granted to you that for the sake of Christ, you should not only believe in him, but also suffered for his sake. So already in his word of encouragement to the Philippians. Paul has emphasized in chapter one, that they have salvation. And for that reason, they are not to be frightened and the reason they can have confidence in that self evasion is that that salvation ultimately finds its origin. In God, a salvation that rests completely in ourselves is not that much of an encouragement. Right? Because I know myself, I know my weaknesses. I know my shortcomings, I know that the power to save is not in myself, as Evan was just reminding us a few moments ago. Salvation is from the Lord. And so as we work out our own salvation, whatever we take that to mean, we understand that as we do that, it is it is God who is at work in us. So there is a both, and in this equation of who works out salvation, well, it is us. And we've earned that. But it is also God. And we don't just need to think of that as a 50/50 arrangement. The work that God puts in is much more efficacious than the work that we put in even as we know that we have to work. So this command that comes from Paul is a reminder of the power of God unto salvation for those who believe, as he says, In the Gospel, or in the letter to the Romans. And So may we always both teach clearly, and believe firmly, that our salvation is a gift from God, that free gift from Romans chapter five, the result of his free and unconstrained love from time eternal, His mercy and His love toward us. We work out our own salvation, because it is God who is at work in us. And part of this issue, I think, might be an English problem, to be quite honest, because what does the phrase work out? Your own salvation? connote? What does it suggest to us in the way that that's great thinking about how we use phrases like that, in English, I began with an example we use workout to mean, try to exercise your body every now and then. And but we use it for other things as well. We talked about working out a math problem, right? And what does it mean, when we try to work something out? Well, it can mean figure it out. Right? Puzzle it out until you find the solution to it. Whether that's a math problem, or an interpersonal conflict, conflict, if you work it out, you figure it out. And you have to do it over and over again, until you get it practice makes perfect. Work it out. And the phrase your own, can certainly make it seem as though it is a matter of individual effort, a matter of individual achievement. Do it yourself, pull yourself up by your own bootstraps, as we sometimes say, take some responsibility. And of course, it's possible to read such ideas into this passage just because of how we talk because of the way that our language works. And so what we want to consider is, is this what Paul is saying here? Or can we read in the context of the letter to understand that Paul is actually saying something a little bit different than that, because we want to be precise in our understanding of what Paul is saying here? What does it mean to work out our own salvation? Well, I would suggest to you that maybe these are not the best ways of thinking about what this phrase means. This word that is translated work out, and in most of our translations, if you're ever interested in looking it up in a concordance or something right there, there's the spelling of the word in the Greek New Testament. I want to give you a few examples of other places in the New Testament where this word this verb shows up in the letters of Paul. Romans chapter four, just one chapter before the text that Evan was leading our thoughts in a moment ago. Paul says, For the law brings wrath, but where there is no law, there is no transgression. So the law brings about wrath, it's the same word, the law works out wrath. That's the result. That is the fruit of the law. The result of the law is rap. In Romans chapter five, one chapter later, he says, We rejoice in our sufferings, knowing that suffering produces endurance. And again, all of these translations are from the English Standard Version, but I'm just showing you the same word is being translated a lot of different ways. We know that our suffering, produces endurance, it works out. Endurance, it brings forth endurance, it's the result of suffering. For sprint the UN's chapter five Paul says, For though absent in body I am present in spirit and as if present, I have already pronounced judgment on the one who did such a thing. Remember, this is the scandal of the man with his father's wife, the one who has produced such an egregious At the one who has worked out such a thing in his life. Second Corinthians chapter four, the same word is used for this light, momentary affliction is preparing, working out, producing for us an eternal weight of glory. beyond all comparison, very similar to what he says in Romans chapter five, the suffering, the affliction that we're going through is something that is productive, it will bring forth this other thing, it's better thing. And then later in that same letter, he says, the signs of a true apostle, were performed, or produced or brought forth among you with utmost patience. So all of these verses illustrate, I think a little bit about what this verb what this idea means to work out our salvation, it is to produce to bring forth to prepare to perform. So let's plug some of those ideas back into Philippians chapter two, verse 12. Therefore, my beloved is you have always obeyed so now not only as in my presence, but much more in my absence, work out your own salvation. What are some other ways that the apostle Paul has used this phrase that we could translate with here, bring forth your own salvation with fear and trembling? Prepare your own salvation with fear and trembling, produce your own salvation with fear and trembling, perform your own salvation with fear and trembling, act out your own salvation with fear and trembling, and one that I think maybe encapsulates all of those that I'll suggest is maybe a good way of thinking about what this workout phrase means is Express. Show the fruits of your own salvation with fear and trembling. The idea here is to bring forth the fruit of it. So that is not just something in name only it is a live thing. Our salvation is something that we live, it is something that we do. It's something that has a visible fruit of visible result. Well, that's the workout part. What about the your own salvation. I don't want to belabor this too much. I think we know what these words mean. But I do want to just note that this is another English problem. When we say you, we can mean one person or two people or multiple people. You can be singular or plural, put it in English class terms, singular or plural. And here Paul is using a plural, you collectively work out your salvation. Of course, we're in Tennessee. So we have another way of saying this, that's a little bit more precise. Don't wait. Y'all Express yalls salvation, that is collectively together with fear and trembling, for it is God who works in y'all. You all I've been reading from the ESV English Standard Version, we might call this, in this case, the English southern version. But I think the point actually gets a little bit more precise when we say it that way. And it changes the nuance a little bit, doesn't it. So in other words, we're not talking about pull yourself up alone by your bootstraps. We're talking about something that we all do together. This is a responsibility, and opportunity, a charge that God has given to all of us to all of the Lord's body, to work out, that is to express to produce the fruits of our salvation. That is something we do together, it is something that we help one another to do. And we do it to will and to work for His good pleasure. So in summary, this translation in the English Standard, and yours may have a very similar one as well. It's a good translation. But let's not be misled, by the way that we sometimes use phrases like this working something out. Let's not be misled by the individualism of our culture. We together as God's Church are to work together to bring forth the fruits of the salvation that we have in Christ Jesus, the salvation that we just read about in verses five through 11. So that's maybe how I would answer that first question, who, who works out salvation what we do with God? Thanks to the salvation we have in Jesus and we do it together. How, how do we go about doing that? Well, Paul has a interesting but helpful phrase right after workout your own salvation. doesn't need work out your own salvation with fear and trembling, with fear and trembling. And actually in the original, he even moves this phrase up to the front, I think for emphasis. So the wording is with fear and trembling, your own salvation work. So this is obviously important. Paul has something critical to tell us about how it is we're to do this very important thing, working out producing, bringing about showing the fruits of our salvation. That's that's a critical thing. How do we do that? with fear and trembling? What? That's a strange qualification. That's a strange instruction, isn't it? Whatever it means it's important. And it encapsulates for Paul, evidently, the way or the manner in which we are to express the fruits of our salvation. But it presents a bit of a conundrum for us, because we're left to ask the question, what kind of fear? What kind of fear and trembling is Paul talking about? Isn't that a bad thing? Isn't fear and trembling something that we as Christians are to avoid? Are we not to choose faith and trust over fear? Is it not true that fear not, is the most common command in the Bible? And it is, more than any other command that we see in the Old and New Testament combined? We hear from the Lord, Fear not. So what does it mean that we work out that we express our salvation together in fear and trembling? Remember that Paul has just in that previous passage in chapter one, verse 27, or 29, he has just told them not to be frightened. Don't be frightened by anything that your opponents are doing, because they are bound for destruction, you are bound for your salvation that you have in God. So do not be frightened. Is this a contradiction with what he says here in verse 12, of chapter two, to work out your salvation with fear and trembling? Well, of course, I don't think it is a contradiction. I think Paul is making a different point. He is using this language of fear and trembling in a different way. And in fact, as we read more widely in the letters of the apostle Paul, we see that this is a kind of idiom that Paul frequently uses. And by idiom we mean, a, an expression that goes just beyond its dictionary definition, it has a special use a special meaning. Let's look at some of the places where Paul uses this phrase fear and trembling elsewhere in his letters. Remember First Corinthians chapter two, when he describes for the Corinthians, the way in which he originally came among them, the way he acted when he was with the group. He says in first Corinthians two beginning in verse one, and I, when I came to you brothers did not come proclaiming to you the testimony of God with lofty speech or wisdom, for I decided to know nothing among you except Jesus Christ, and Him crucified. And I was with you in weakness, and in fear and much trembling. And my speech and my message, were not implausible words of wisdom, but in demonstration of the Spirit and power, so that your faith may not rest in the wisdom of men, but in the power of God. This was the manner of Paul's presentation of the gospel to the Corinthians was in fear and trembling. You may remember in second Corinthians chapter seven, when he's describing the way that the Corinthians have refreshed the spirit of Titus, he says, besides our own comfort, we rejoice still more at the joy of Titus, because his spirit has been refreshed by you all, for whatever boasts I made to him about you, I was not put shame. But just as everything we said to you is true, so also are boasting before Titus has proved true, and his affection for you is even greater, as he remembers the obedience of you all how you received him. So this is now not Paul, among the Corinthians. But the Corinthians with Titus, they received him with fear and trembling, I rejoice because I have complete confidence in you. And Ephesians chapter six, he says, bondservants obey your earthly masters, with fear and trembling with a sincere heart as you would Christ, not by the way of I service as people pleasers, but as Bond servants of Christ. So this is to describe the manner in which slaves or bondservants in the first century, who were Christians should respond to their masters. And then that leads us back here to Philippians chapter two. As we try to make comparison to understand what he's saying here, we work out our own salvation with fear and trembling. So what is the common element? What's the common thread between all of them passages where Paul actually charges Christians to behave with fear and trembling or where Paul himself modeled that sort of behavior. Well, one thing that's interesting to me is we try to compare all of those passages and see what's common to them is the way that the phrase, fear and trembling is paired with another concept. That is obedience, obedience. In Second Corinthians seven, he says, The Titus was remarkably impressed with the obedience of the of the Corinthian Christians, which he then goes on to describe as fear and trembling. In Ephesians, six, Paul charges, Bond servants to obey their masters with fear and trembling. And now here in Philippians, chapter two, that same connection is evident, just as you have always obeyed, yes, in my presence, but now hopefully, much more in my absence, obey with fear and trembling. So whatever this fear and trembling is, it has something to do with obedience. And I would suggest that Paul uses this phrase characteristically to describe the submissive, humble obedience of the cross, the submissive obedience of the cross, that is, we Christians live out our response to the gospel in the same way that Jesus himself showed obedience to the Father in going to the cross. And we can see this connection. If we just again, read a little bit beyond the verses that we're focusing on and read the verses that come immediately before that same passage, verses five through 11, that describes how Jesus did not count equality with God a thing to be grasped, but humbled Himself took on the form of humanity, and becomes obedient to the point of death, even death on a cross verse eight. So that concept of Jesus's obedience is connected to his humility, and his submission to the will of the Father. And that's just four verses before our passage for this morning. Therefore, all says in verse 12, as you have always obeyed, just like Jesus obeyed the Father, as you have always obeyed. Work out your salvation with fear and trembling. And so I would suggest that this concept of fear and trembling is not a command for us to be terrified to be worried all the time. But it is a an expression of our absolute humility, in the face of God in the face of his love forests in the face of the charge that He has for us, we respond to that not with pride, not with self will not with puffing ourselves up, but with abject humility, with abject submission to the Father through our obedience to the gospel. That is what Paul means by working out our salvation with fear and trembling. Remember that in first Corinthians chapter two, Paul links, the knowledge of Jesus Christ's crucifixion, with his behavior among the Corinthians. So you can almost say these were parallel ideas for Paul, there's almost an equal sign here, I decided to know nothing except Jesus and him crucified. And I was with you in much fear and trembling. To know Jesus Christ crucifixion, and to appreciate its importance must change our behavior, we must live in light of the cross, we must pattern our behavior after the cross. And that is what it means to live in fear and trembling. And this helps make some sense of what Paul was saying when he said earlier in chapter one, don't be frightened by your opponents. What does he recommend in place of being frightened of your opponents? He says in back in chapter one, verse 27, only let your manner of life be worthy of the gospel of Christ. If the gospel of Christ is that Jesus has humbled Himself, He has left the quality with God is not something to be grasped, he has taken the form of a servant, he has been found in lightness as a man and has become obedient to the point of death, even death on a cross and He did that for us. If that's the gospel of Christ, then we must live in a manner worthy of that. And we must pattern our own lives after that. That is how we work out our salvation. That is how we show the fruits that we mean, what we say we mean that we actually believe what we say, we believe, because for the sake of Christ, He says in verse 29 of chapter one, you should not only believe in him, but also show the fruits of that suffer for his sake, as he suffered. And so that leads us now to our third question. Why if we are to show the fruits of our salvation, and we are to do it through this radical humility, like Jesus through this renunciation of our pride through this letting go of our privilege, through not putting our priorities ahead of God's priorities of putting others needs before ourselves, why do we do those things? Why do we do those things? I think that's what Paul emphasizes here in verse 13. It gives us the reason, the motivation for why we do those things, for it is God who works in you both to will that is to desire and to work for his own good pleasure. To will, and to work for God's pleasure. In other words, it's not just that we do what God wants us to do grudgingly, but that's what we want to that's our will, our will has become aligned with God's will. There's a wonderful little hymn that I don't think is in our hymnal. But I wanted to quote the first two verses to you. It's called Breathe on me breath of God, written by a man named Edwin hatch in the 19th century, he says, Breathe on me breath of God, fill me with life, a new, that I may love, what thou doest love, and do what thou what's do. So it's both things. We love what God loves. And that motivates us to do what God would do. And then he goes on in verse to breathe on the breath of God until my heart is pure, until with the I will, one will, to do and to endure. So our will becomes one with the Father as well. I think that's exactly what Paul is describing here in chapter two, verse 13, both to will and to work for God's good pleasure. So working for God's good pleasure, what does it mean to work and to will for God's good pleasure? Well, I would suggest that it has something to do with what we just read in verses five through 11. With what Jesus did, why did Jesus humble himself? Why did he take on the form of a servant? Why did he become obedient to the point of death on the cross? Well, it wasn't just so that God would then exalt Him, although that's of course true. But notice that even in all of that, even in his exaltation, all of that was ultimately for the goal of the glory of God, the Father, verse 11, the glory of God, the Father. And I would suggest that the glory of God, the Father, and the good pleasure of God, are two sides of the same coin. In other words, when we work for God's good pleasure, we are working for His glory. And when we work for God's glory, we are working for His good pleasure. That is what He desires. This phrase, God's good pleasure, or God's good purpose, it gets translated a few different ways shows up about 30 times in the New Testament. And again, I think it's helpful to see some places where this shows up. Remember the story of the birth announcement of Jesus to shepherds in the Gospel of Luke, Luke chapter two, verses eight through 14. So remember that an angel appears to them, they're filled with fear. And then there's that very common command, Fear not? Right? For behold, I bring you good news of great joy that will be for all the people, good news of great joy for all the people. And then there's a great host that appears with the angel praising God and saying, Glory to God in the highest. And there's another part to this on earth peace among those with whom he is pleased. So the pleasure of God is connected to the glory of God. And what do both of those things have to do with? Well, it has to do with the salvation, the good news, the peace of all mankind. That's what God takes pleasure in. That's what God finds glory in His good purpose, to save mankind. To save those who believe, as Paul would go on to say in First Corinthians chapter 1%, in the wisdom of God, the world did not know God through wisdom, it pleased God, same word, through the folly of what we preach to save those who believe God's good pleasure, God's glory, the thing that he delights in is to save us to save those who would believe. And of course, maybe one of the most well known passages that talk about the good pleasure of God's will. The good purpose of God's will is Paul's letter to the Ephesians Ephesians chapter one in love. He predestined us for adoption to himself as sons through Jesus Christ, according To the purpose, this could also be translated good pleasure of His will to the praise of His glorious grace with which He has blessed us in the Beloved. And then going on down a little bit further, Paul describes the grace that God has lavished upon us, according in all wisdom and insight making known to us the mystery of his will, according to His purpose, that is His good pleasure, which he set forth in Christ. So again, notice that in that context, God's good pleasure, the thing that God delights in is also the thing that brings God glory. God does not seek His own glory for his own purposes. God is not vain. God is not self interested. What glorifies God is also what pleases God and what pleases God. What pleases God is to save to save his people that he has made to save those who will believe. So what pleases and glorifies God, and therefore, what ought to please us? Well, our salvation, pleases and glorifies God, our collective salvation, not just this congregation. But all those who believe Paul says, what pleases and glorifies God, our adoption, as sons, what pleases and glorifies God, our redemption, what pleases and glorifies God, our forgiveness, and the forgiveness of all who believe in Him, and what pleases and glorifies God, our union with Him. These are the things that please God, and therefore these are the things that glorify God. And therefore, we who will and work for His good pleasure ought to desire these same things and to bring these things to others. Well, I said this was a three point lesson, I'm going to sneak in a fourth point at the end here. So we've we've considered three questions so far, who, how and why? Well, I think there's also a related question, so what? So what do we take home from this passage today? How do we live this passage out this week? What are some practical ways that we can actually will and work for God's good pleasure, show the fruits of our salvation together? Well, Paul gives us a very good, very practical, very difficult suggestion in the next verse, chapter two, verse 14. So don't stop reading there. 13 do all things without murmuring and arguing. So that you may be blameless and innocent children of God without blemish in the midst of a crooked and perverse generation, in which you shine like stars in the world. Well, that's where the rubber meets the road. This is the so what, and of course, this is just one application. And Paul will go on to discuss other applications of this principle of working out our salvation. But this one's very day to day, very practical, it plays out in our family life. It plays out in our work life, it plays out in our school life, it plays out in our congregational life, in every aspect of life. This is how we can express the fruits of the salvation that we have in Christ. And it's something we can work on individually, and it's something we can work on, collectively do all things without murmuring, and complaining. How can we work out the fruits of our salvation from sin in a very practical way, today, tomorrow, Monday, by doing the difficult work of peacemaking in this world, in our families in our church, avoiding divisive attitudes, avoiding toxic speech, murmuring, complaining, slandering, belittling, arguing, dividing. All of these, Paul says, are diametrically opposed to the Son of God, who emptied Himself who humbled himself who served and who died for us. Kancil culture is not just out there in the world, it is in here among God's people, and we must stamp it out. Paul says Why would we expect the world to behave like Christians? Why would we hold the world to the standards of the kingdom but then fail to hold ourselves to that same standard? We can be too quick to cut down other brothers and sisters in the Lord's body to cut them down for their mistakes for their blind spots for their irritating habits for their differences of opinion with our own and we can be too slow conversely to reconcile, to forgive, and to unify. Our default setting is not being blameless and innocent. Our default setting is murmuring and arguing. And Paul says we need to be shining like stars in this dark world, and how we go about the work of peacemaking and forgiveness and unity. We should be shining like stars, but too often we are black holes of self will and outrage. I love the way that David the psalmist, juxtaposes Psalm 133, with 134, because I think their meanings go hand in hand. Both of them are just three verses, but their ideas go together so well and I think they're two sides of the same coin. David says, Behold, how good and pleasant it is, God's good pleasure. Behold, how good and pleasant it is when brothers dwell in unity. And then write in the next song. Come, bless the Lord. Oh, you servants of the Lord. Lift up your hands to the holy place and bless the Lord. Brothers and sisters, those are not two different commands. Those are the same command, dwell in unity with one another and bless the Lord. That's how we work out our salvation with fear and trembling in the way that we bless one another. We bless the Lord. There's a hem that maybe we're not too familiar with in our songs him psalms, hymns and spiritual songs him No, it's number 618 I just wanted to share the words as we close today. It says, Forgive our sins as we forgive. You taught us Lord to pray. But you alone can grant the grace to live the words we say. How can your pardon reach and bless the unforgiving heart that broods on wrongs and will not let old bitterness depart? In blazing light, your cross reveals the truth we dimly knew which is what what trivial debts are owed to us how great our debt to you. Lord, cleanse the depths within our souls in bid resentment cease, then bound to all in bonds of love, our lives will spread your peace. Amen to that. Let's pray together as we conclude. Our Father in heaven we praise you, we bless you. What a salvation you have given to us through your Son, our Lord Jesus Christ, in him through his blood, which was shot on the cross for us, which cleanses us in baptism. We have experienced your love, your grace, your mercy, what a debt what a great debt you have forgiven for us. You have taught us the meaning of love and you have shown us how to love through Jesus. And so Father, we bring our confession of sin to you this morning. Despite Jesus's humility, we are often proud. Despite Jesus's service, we often seek to rule and to control despite Jesus's mercy, we are often cruel. Despite Jesus's patients, we often murmur and complain. Despite Jesus's kindness, we are often petty and mean. Despite Jesus's peacemaking, we argue and divide. So we confess confess our sin this morning, father and we ask your forgiveness, and we know you are faithful and just to forgive. Father, I thank you for this congregation, for their work for their labor in the Gospel, as they work out their salvation with fear and trembling. I pray that you will make this church shine like stars in this community. Show them show us all how to be of the same mind in Jesus, renew our focus to be blameless and innocent children of yours without blemish. Help us bring forth the fruits of our salvation with humility. May our unity may our forgiveness may our peacemaking shock this crooked and perverse generation with the gospel of Christ. Your son's name we pray, amen. If there's something we can do to encourage any of you this morning to find the salvation that is in Christ Jesus, whether that's through putting him on in baptism, or whether for those of us who are Christians, if there's something we can do in your walk with God, and you're working out and expressing the fruits of your salvation if you could benefit from the prayers of this congregation, we pray that you would make that known as together we stand and sing


Transcribed by https://otter.ai